 For use at 2:00 p.m., E.S.T. Wednesday March 5, 2014
Summary of Commentary on ____________________ Current Economic Conditions By Federal Reserve District February 2014

SUMMARY OF COMMENTARY ON CURRENT ECONOMIC CONDITIONS BY FEDERAL RESERVE DISTRICTS February 2014

 TABLE OF CONTENTS
SUMMARY ............................................................................................................................... i
First District - Boston..............................................................................................................I-1
Second District - New York .................................................................................................. II-1
Third District - Philadelphia ................................................................................................ III-1
Fourth District - Cleveland .................................................................................................. IV-1
Fifth District - Richmond ...................................................................................................... V-1
Sixth District - Atlanta ......................................................................................................... VI-1
Seventh District - Chicago ................................................................................................. VII-1
Eighth District - St. Louis ................................................................................................. VIII-1
Ninth District - Minneapolis ................................................................................................ IX-1
Tenth District - Kansas City ................................................................................................. X-1
Eleventh District - Dallas ..................................................................................................... XI-1
Twelfth District - San Francisco ........................................................................................ XII-1

 i SUMMARY* Reports from most of the twelve Federal Reserve Districts indicated that economic
conditions continued to expand from January to early February. Eight Districts reported
improved levels of activity, but in most cases the increases were characterized as modest to
moderate. New York and Philadelphia experienced a slight decline in activity, which was mostly
attributed to the unusually severe weather experienced in those regions. Growth slowed in
Chicago, and Kansas City reported that conditions remained stable during the reporting period.
The outlook among most Districts remained optimistic. Retail sales growth weakened since the previous report for most Districts, as severe
winter weather limited activity. However, Richmond, St. Louis, and Minneapolis reported
modest sales growth since the beginning of the year. Weather was also cited as a contributing
factor to softer auto sales in many Districts, with the exception of Cleveland, which saw strong
gains. Tourism increased in a number of Districts but declined in Philadelphia and was reported
to have been mixed in New York and Minneapolis. The demand for nonfinancial services was mixed compared with the last report; however,
both Boston and San Francisco reported strong demand for technology related services.
Manufacturing sales and production in several Districts were negatively impacted by severe
winter weather; however, modest improvements were noted in Boston, Atlanta, Minneapolis, and
Dallas. Residential real estate markets continued to improve in several areas, albeit modestly.
Boston and New York gave mixed reports on sales, and Philadelphia, Cleveland, Minneapolis,
and Kansas City noted a decrease in sales. Many Districts cited low inventories of housing and
continued home price appreciation. Commercial real estate leasing expanded, according to most
reports, while reports on construction activity were mixed. Demand for commercial real estate * Prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta and based on information collected before
February 24, 2014. This document summarizes comments received from businesses and other
contacts outside the Federal Reserve and is not a commentary on the views of Federal Reserve
officials.

 ii
loans was solid in Boston, improved slightly in Dallas, and continued to grow steadily in
Chicago and Kansas City. Of the Districts that reported on agriculture, conditions softened in Kansas City and
Dallas as dry soil adversely affected wheat crops. Districts reported that energy production and
demand continued to increase as a result of increased demand due to the unusually cold winter. Employment levels improved gradually for most Districts, and shortages of specialized
skilled labor continued to be reported. Price pressures remained subdued, with the exception of
upward cost pressures for some energy and construction products. Wage pressures remained
stable for most Districts.
Consumer Spending and Tourism Most Districts reported sales growth had softened from January to early February. New
York reported noticeable weakness; however, Richmond, St. Louis, and Minneapolis reported
modest growth since the beginning of the year. The extreme winter weather conditions
reportedly contributed to the decline in sales in some markets; however, Richmond, Chicago, and
Minneapolis reported that weather-related goods contributed to positive sales growth. Reports
from furniture retailers in Boston and Minneapolis indicated strong sales. Contacts in Cleveland,
Richmond, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco expected retail spending to improve going
forward. Vehicle sales varied across Districts. Severe weather conditions resulted in softer
vehicle sales as reported by New York, Philadelphia, Richmond, Chicago, Kansas City, and
Dallas. Cleveland noted a modest increase in auto sales compared with a year ago. New York
cited upcoming auto shows as an expected boost for future sales, while Chicago anticipates that
sales incentives will increase near-term sales. Travel and tourism was generally strong across most reporting Districts except for
Philadelphia who recorded a slight decrease. San Francisco stated that the level of travel and
tourism increased in their region. Recent winter weather conditions benefited many ski resorts in
Kansas City, Richmond, and Minneapolis. Atlanta and Boston also indicated that hotels fared
well from the weather, but that restaurants, museums, and other attractions were negatively
impacted. New York reported mixed activity from January to early February. Hotel occupancy

 iii
rates in Manhattan and New Jersey increased, buoyed by the Super Bowl, while hotel business
was down in western New York State due to the harsh winter storms. Airline contacts from
Dallas indicated solid to slightly stronger demand, with some temporary disruptions due to
severe winter weather across the nation. The majority of Districts reported a solid start in the
first quarter for hotel bookings, occupancy, and revenue with an optimistic outlook for the
remainder of the year.
Nonfinancial Services Reports from Districts mentioning nonfinancial business services indicated that activity
has been mixed since the previous report. Both New York and Philadelphia reported that severe
winter weather reduced demand for services in their region. Activity in Minnesota and San
Francisco’s professional business service firms improved since their last report. Boston said that
demand for software and information technology was stronger than expected, and demand for
cloud computing remained strong according to San Francisco’s report. Richmond service
providers noted flat revenue in recent weeks, while sales were characterized as stable among
Kansas City service providers. The outlook among contacts was mixed, as well. Planned
activity in St. Louis was described as negative, while contacts in Minneapolis and Dallas noted
optimism. Contacts in Kansas City anticipate activity will pick up, while software and IT
professionals in San Francisco are cautiously optimistic and anticipate revenue growth will be
positive this quarter. Transportation activity since the previous report was mixed. Severe weather reportedly
disrupted supply chains and delayed shipments in several Districts. In Dallas, railroad cargo
volumes fell slightly below year earlier levels, with winter weather conditions across the country
largely to blame. Port activity in Atlanta and Richmond reflected increases in auto shipments,
while Dallas reported declines in container volumes. Atlanta and Dallas indicated air cargo was
down, compared with year earlier levels. Kansas City cited increasing optimism about future
transportation activity, while Cleveland noted expectations that demand in 2014 will be the same
or only moderately higher than a year ago.

 iv
Manufacturing Manufacturing activity expanded at a moderate pace from January through early
February in most Districts. Several Districts reported that severe winter weather had a negative
effect on sales and production during this period, including Boston, New York, Philadelphia,
Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, and Dallas. The weather was cited to have
caused utility outages, disrupted supply chains and production schedules, and resulted in a
slowing of sales to affected customers. Philadelphia and Richmond reported that shipments and
orders declined during the first half of February. Steel producers in Cleveland indicated that they
have excess capacity, and San Francisco reported low capacity utilization rates at steel mills.
Boston and San Francisco indicated that semiconductor sales had been particularly strong. High-
tech contacts in Dallas reported a slight improvement in orders, as demand for memory chips
remained strong and demand for logic devices remained weak but stable. San Francisco also
cited growth in the commercial aerospace industry due to a backlog in orders for commercial
aircraft, while defense-related manufacturers reported sluggish overall conditions and expected
sales to trend downward. Auto production was strong in Chicago despite weather-related
slowdowns in sales, and Cleveland reported auto production to be higher than a year ago. Most
Districts were optimistic about the future and expect manufacturing activity to rise in the coming
months.
Real Estate and Construction Reports on residential housing markets were somewhat mixed. Many Districts continued
to report improving conditions but noted that growth had slowed. Most of the Districts
indicating otherwise attributed the slowing pace of improvement to unusually severe winter
weather conditions. Home sales increased in Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, and Dallas,
while sales were down in Philadelphia, Cleveland, Minneapolis, and Kansas City. Boston and
New York reported that the trend in sales for their Districts was mixed. New home construction
increased in Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, and Minneapolis, and remained flat in
Kansas City, and was down slightly from the previous period in Philadelphia. Most Districts
reported low levels of home inventories and indicated that home prices continued to appreciate.
The outlook for sales and residential construction was positive in Boston, Philadelphia,
Cleveland, Atlanta, and San Francisco.

 v Strong multifamily construction was cited in New York, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta,
and Dallas, while Boston indicated that its pipeline of multifamily construction was declining.
Dallas experienced rent growth above its historical average, while New York reported mixed
trends in rent growth. Cleveland noted that it expects healthy growth in rents this year. Many Districts, including New York, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas
City, and San Francisco, indicated that commercial real estate activity had increased and that
conditions continued to improve since the previous report. Philadelphia noted that there was
very little activity to report in construction or leasing due to severe winter weather. The outlook
for nonresidential construction was fairly optimistic in Boston, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Atlanta,
Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco.
Banking and Financial Services District reports of loan demand and volume were mixed. Demand for residential
mortgages decreased in New York, Richmond, St. Louis, and Kansas City, and softened in
Philadelphia and Dallas. Cleveland and Atlanta noted increased demand for new purchase
mortgages, while mortgage refinancing declined in New York, Richmond, Atlanta, and Kansas
City. Demand for consumer loans grew slightly in Philadelphia, Cleveland, Chicago, and Dallas,
and held steady in Kansas City. Decreased demand for consumer loans was noted by Richmond
and St. Louis, and among small to medium-sized banks in New York. Boston reported
commercial real estate loans were highly competitive and demand was solid. Richmond
businesses looked for shorter-term commercial real estate loans in order to benefit from lower
interest rates those loans offered. Chicago and Kansas City reported steady growth in
commercial real estate loans, and demand for such loans improved marginally in Dallas. Small
to medium-sized banks in New York reported no change in commercial real estate loan demand. New York noted modest declines in delinquency rates. Cleveland reported delinquencies
were stable or trended lower, and St. Louis indicated delinquencies for most types of loans
decreased. Loan quality in Kansas City improved compared with a year ago and continued to
strengthen in Dallas. Bankers in Cleveland and Atlanta voiced concerns about recently enacted
regulations and the potential negative impact on lending.

 vi
Agriculture and Natural Resources Agricultural conditions softened since the previous report. Severe winter weather
affected several Districts with some crop damage being reported by Richmond and Atlanta,
while Chicago noted disruptions in the flow of agricultural products. Both Kansas City and
Dallas cited dry conditions adversely affecting wheat crops, while San Francisco reported
concerns about water shortages and water costs. Several Districts noted falling feed prices had a
positive effect for cattle and hog producers. Kansas City indicated farmland price appreciation
moderated from the rapid pace seen in the past few years. Crop prices received in January by
farmers fell from a year earlier for corn, wheat, soybeans, hogs, and chickens; prices increased
for cotton, rice, oranges, cattle, milk, eggs, and turkeys. District reports showed continued strength in energy production and demand for oil and
gas; much of the increased demand was driven by unusually cold winter weather. Cleveland,
Richmond, and St. Louis reported coal production was down, with steam coal plant closures in
Richmond. Cleveland, Atlanta, and Dallas described growth in drilling (both inland and
offshore) and refining activity. In contrast, Minneapolis indicated that oil and gas exploration
decreased slightly from recent months, primarily due to the extremely cold weather. Inventory
drawdowns and supply shortages of natural gas and propane were reported in Atlanta, Chicago,
and Dallas due to increased withdrawals that were exacerbated by the severe weather. Nearly all
Districts attributed energy price surges to increased demand during the unusually cold weather;
yet, Boston reported that natural gas prices were also driven up by pressure on pipeline capacity
in New England. Some firms in the Richmond and Chicago Districts indicated that they elected
to delay production and/or reduce usage rather than pay high prices. Dallas indicated that
increases in the price of West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude oil were being bolstered by
debottlenecking at Cushing, Oklahoma.
Employment, Wages, and Prices Since the previous report, the pace of hiring had reportedly softened in Boston,
Richmond, and Chicago, with those Districts attributing at least part of the recent slowdown to
unusually bad winter weather. Despite a pickup in hiring in some sectors across New York,
Cleveland, Atlanta, and St. Louis, notably in manufacturing, overall employment growth for
these Districts remained sluggish. In Philadelphia, as outlooks for long-term overall economic

 vii
growth improved, firms reportedly continued to expand their headcounts cautiously. In contrast,
labor markets in the Minneapolis District tightened slightly. The rate at which temporary
employees were converted to permanent hires remained strong across Boston, while contacts in
Richmond reported this conversion was happening at a slightly faster pace than previously noted.
Many Districts continued to note shortages for particular types of specialized, technical skilled
labor, such as healthcare professionals and information technology workers. Atlanta and Dallas
also noted shortages for freight truck drivers. Inflation pressures remained largely unchanged across most Districts. Price pressures
were described as minimal or roughly steady in Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland,
Atlanta, Chicago, Minneapolis, Dallas, and San Francisco. There were some mentions of rising
raw materials prices passing through to final goods. Boston indicated that higher material costs
and rising costs of overseas labor could have an upward influence on apparel prices. Chicago,
Minneapolis, and Dallas noted that unseasonably cold weather had pushed up costs for some
energy products. Construction materials prices remained a source of upward cost pressure,
according to contacts in Atlanta and Kansas City. Retail contacts in New York and Philadelphia
reported deep product discounting; however, reports from Dallas indicated that retail prices were
stable. Most Districts noted that wage pressures were largely steady since the last report;
however, a few Districts cited upward wage pressures in some highly skilled jobs in industries
such as information technology, transportation, and construction. Reports from Cleveland,
Kansas City, and San Francisco indicated that businesses were anticipating wage growth to
increase from the recent mild pace as the year progresses. Contacts in Chicago indicated that
higher healthcare premiums increased non-wage labor costs, while a growing number of
employers in Cleveland reported passing through rising healthcare costs to their employees.

 I-1 FIRST DISTRICT – BOSTON Business contacts in the First District continue to report modest increases in revenues and sales.
Respondents in several sectors cite negative effects of severe winter weather. Firms report little hiring and
wage increases remain very modest. Price pressures are reportedly minimal, but a few contacts note
specific items for which prices are rising or are expected to rise. The outlook is generally positive, albeit
cautiously so.
Retail and Tourism This round’s retail contacts completed their 2013 fiscal years at the end of December or in mid-
February. Most report 2013 year-over-year sales increases ranging from 3 percent to the mid-single digits,
though one cites an increase in the mid-teens. Several respondents report continued good results so far in
2014, but two retailers indicate that the pace of sales has slowed a bit. Some of this softness is said to be
due to weather-related issues or to tough year-over-year comparisons with the post-Hurricane Sandy
rebound. A furniture retailer reports that President’s Day sales were extremely strong. Prices remain
steady overall, though contacts say a modest increase in apparel prices is coming, reflecting a rise in some
raw material prices and overseas labor costs. Retail respondents expect continued overall improvement in
U.S. economic conditions and consumer sentiment in 2014. Boston area hotels attained new record highs for hotel occupancy rates and revenues in 2013,
building on the strong records sent in 2012. Expectations are for continued strong growth in 2014, though
hotels expect to see revenue growth but not increases in occupancy rates; these are forecast at 80 percent,
a 1 percentage point increase over 2013. Severe winter weather in January and February had hotels faring
well, but restaurants, museums, and other venues losing revenue due to the harsh weather conditions. An
industry contact says that this pattern seems to hold for much of the eastern seaboard.
Manufacturing and Related Services Of 13 manufacturers contacted this round, nine report higher sales than the same period a year
earlier. Two firms, a toy manufacturer and a publisher, cite flat sales but the reasons appear to be
idiosyncratic. Two others, a manufacturer of electrical equipment for residential and commercial
buildings and a maker of membranes, report falling sales but both attribute the drop to the weather. The
direct effect of the storms was the loss of several days of production in February. In addition, demand fell
both because some of their products are intermediate goods for other plants in afflicted areas and because
end users demanded less. For example, reduced construction meant that there was less demand for
electrical supplies. Three firms in the semiconductor industry report strong sales, confirming the end of
that sector’s slowdown, which began in 2011. Two firms, a maker of electrical equipment and a tool
maker, both reported that residential investment was a significant driver of growth. The news on inventories is mixed. Six contacts say that they continue to make a concerted effort
to reduce inventories. However, one contact was building inventory on the assumption that the drop in
sales due to the winter weather would lead to an increase in demand in the second quarter to make up for
it. An electrical equipment supplier said that in some product lines, bad weather led to higher demand for
replacement parts which reduced inventories. None of our contacts report any major pricing pressure, up

 I-2
or down, either from suppliers or customers. One contact said that pressure on pipeline capacity in New
England is driving up natural gas prices. Most firms report increased capital spending in 2013 and plans to increase again in 2014.
However, most of those plans were already in place and there is little evidence of positive revisions in
recent months. Five contacts report flat employment, four note positive hiring, and four cite reduced
staffing. Respondents say engineering staff remains somewhat difficult to find, but otherwise none of our
contacts have complaints about the labor market. Eleven of 13 contacts report positive or very positive outlooks for 2014. The exceptions are a toy
maker, who is generally cautious, and a publisher anticipating falling sales.
Software and Information Technology Services First District software and information technology services contacts generally report stronger-
than-expected business activity through February, with revenue growth exceeding earlier forecasts. For
example, a healthcare contact expected a large year-over-year revenue decline due to the expiration of
federal stimulus for health records software; however, the firm ended the year with just a marginal dip in
revenues and positive net income growth. Only one contact, a provider of payment and banking software,
reports accelerated growth, with year-over-year revenue increases in the 15 percent range. The majority of
firms are maintaining headcount; one contact added positions in sales and marketing. Wages remain
steady, with firms awarding (and in one case reinstating) merit increases in the 2.5 percent to 3.5 percent
range. Both selling prices and capital and technology spending have gone largely unchanged. The outlook
among software and IT contacts is cautious optimism, with expectations of modest revenue growth
through the end of the quarter. Contacts remain concerned about general macroeconomic conditions and
uncertainty surrounding healthcare reform.
Staffing Services New England staffing contacts report softened business conditions in recent months, attributed to
both the holiday season and the large number of snowstorms occurring throughout the Northeast.
Although revenues are up slightly year-over-year, they are down on a quarter-over-quarter basis. Despite
these difficulties, labor demand remains strong across most industries, with contacts noting particularly
high demand in the software, engineering, legal, specialty manufacturing, and healthcare sectors. Demand
has weakened in the defense sector. On the supply side, contacts cite a shortage of candidates to fill
nursing, specialized manufacturing, and IT roles. This reportedly reflects a skills mismatch, amplified by
the holidays and severe weather. In response, firms continue to invest in social media initiatives to reach a
broader audience of candidates. The temporary-to-permanent conversion rate remains strong. Bill rates
and pay rates have generally held steady, with the exception of two contacts reporting an upward trend in
pay rates and one contact reporting a slight increase in bill rates. Looking forward, staffing contacts are
optimistic that growth will accelerate as weather conditions improve, expecting mid-single-digit revenue
growth through the next few months. Several contacts express concerns about continued uncertainty
regarding how healthcare reform will affect the staffing industry.

 I-3
Commercial Real Estate Commercial real estate activity was mixed across the First District, but contacts report that
leasing fundamentals were largely stable in recent weeks. In Providence, demand for multifamily housing
remains strong downtown, while industrial leasing activity is still weak. In Boston, office demand
continues to be uneven within the city, with strength in the Seaport District, increasing demand in some
suburban areas, and comparative weakness—including downward pressure on rents—in the Financial
District. In Boston and Hartford, severe winter weather modestly reduced office leasing inquiries. Also,
according to one contact, investment sales activity slowed in the region in the aftermath of a year-end
surge in transactions. At the same time, contacts indicate that investment demand for commercial real
estate remains strong across the region, and especially strong in Boston. A Portland contact characterizes
leasing activity as solid and notes that land sales continue to gather momentum. Planned developments in
Portland include a diverse mix of structures: recreational facilities, hotels, office space, and specialty
retail. According to a regional banking contact, the bank lending environment for commercial real estate
remains highly competitive, with solid loan demand across numerous sectors, albeit including fewer
condominium development loans than had been expected. Recent trends in construction activity persist,
with slow growth in the institutional sector, a declining pipeline of multifamily structures, and an increase
in planned mixed-use developments and speculative office construction in parts of Boston. While contacts are mostly optimistic concerning the outlook for commercial real estate in their
respective markets, some downside risks are noted, including renewed macroeconomic uncertainty
stemming from recent, weaker-than-expected employment reports, an uncertain future path of interest
rates, and fallout from unrest in the Ukraine, Syria, and Venezuela. Other factors seen as restraining
growth include rising construction and maintenance costs, and, in Rhode Island, political stagnation
stemming from the current gubernatorial election.
Residential Real Estate The First District experienced mixed results for sales of single family houses and condominiums
in December. Contacts in New Hampshire and Rhode Island cite declines in sales of single family homes,
while Massachusetts experienced no change, and respondents in Connecticut, Maine, and Vermont cite
increases in sales relative to December 2012. Scarce inventory is said to be the most significant constraint
on the growth of sales, while uncertainty from new qualified mortgage rules and flood insurance reforms
are also believed to be causing buyers to remain cautious about making offers. Contacts in Connecticut
say that sales are being affected by weak consumer confidence and a shortage of stable employment
opportunities. Median sale prices increased year-over-year in four of the six New England states,
decreasing only in Connecticut and Vermont. In Massachusetts, particularly in the Greater Boston area,
price appreciation driven by low inventory levels has become a concern as realtors caution that high
prices could keep first time home buyers out of the market. Pending sales suggest the market for single family houses and condos is off to a good start in
2014, increasing in all states except Rhode Island. Contacts express optimism about local housing
markets looking forward but say they expect the snowy winter to depress sales in the near term.

 II-1 SECOND DISTRICT--NEW YORK Economic activity in the Second District declined modestly in the first few weeks of 2014,
hampered by inclement weather. Contacts report some broadening of price pressures in the service
sector, though retail prices remain mostly stable. Manufacturers in the District report that activity
was stable whereas service-sector firms report some weakening, on balance. Labor market
conditions have continued to improve gradually since the last report. General merchandise retailers
report that sales were below plan and down sharply from a year earlier, due to unusually harsh
weather in January and early February. New auto sales weakened noticeably in January but showed
signs of rebounding in the first half of February. Tourism activity was mixed in January and early
February, hampered by harsh weather but boosted by the Super Bowl. Housing markets were mixed,
while commercial real estate markets firmed slightly. Finally, banks report some further weakening
in loan demand from the household sector, little change in credit standards, and steady to declining
delinquency rates.
Consumer Spending General merchandise retailers report that sales weakened noticeably in early 2014, running
below plan and well below year-ago levels. Two major retail chains indicate that sales during the
first six weeks of the year were down sharply from comparable 2013 levels, mainly due to the
weather. One contact notes exceptionally low gift card redemptions—viewed as a likely harbinger
that much of the shortfall in sales will be made up when warmer weather arrives. Similarly, contacts
at major malls in upstate New York report that sales were weak in January and early February, due
largely to heavy snow and extremely cold weather, particularly during weekends. Not surprisingly,
one category that has performed reasonably well is cold-weather outerwear. Inventories are mostly
at or modestly above desired levels. Prices are reported to be little changed, though some retail
contacts describe the environment as increasingly promotional.

 II-2 After a strong 2013, auto dealers in upstate New York report that new vehicle sales weakened
noticeably in January but showed some signs of rebounding in early February. Inclement weather is
viewed as having been an inhibiting factor in January, but not the only one; conversely, some of the
pickup in February is attributed to a major auto show in Buffalo, and an upcoming show in Rochester
is expected to provide some boost as well. Wholesale and retail credit conditions for auto purchases
remain favorable. Tourism activity has been mixed thus far in 2014. Despite the bad weather, attendance at
Broadway theaters is up about 7 percent year-to-date, form 2013 levels, and total revenues are up 12
percent; however, it should be noted that there are roughly 15 percent more shows running in 2014
than in 2013. Manhattan hotels report that occupancy rates were little changed from a year earlier in
January, though room rates were up sharply—cold and snowy weather dampened demand but this
was largely offset by business related to the Super Bowl, which buoyed occupancy and especially
room rates in late January and early February. Hotels in northern New Jersey, where occupancy rates
are typically much lower this time of year, reportedly saw a more pronounced boost during the weeks
around the Super Bowl. Hotels in western New York State, on the other hand, report that winter
storms depressed business in January—particularly in Rochester and Niagara Falls. Finally, consumer confidence improved in January: the Conference Board’s surveys of
residents of both the Middle Atlantic states (NY, NJ, Pa) and New York alone show confidence
surging to a six-year high, while Siena College’s survey of New York State residents indicates a
more moderate increase, to a six-month high.
Construction and Real Estate The District’s housing markets have been mixed since the last report. Contacts in western
New York State note some softening in both activity and prices in early 2014—largely a function of
the unusually cold and snowy weather, but also reflecting increased difficulty obtaining credit. More
broadly, though, home sales across New York State showed resilience in January, slipping only

 II-3
slightly from the elevated level of a year earlier, while prices reportedly rose 10 percent. Sales
activity in New York City’s co-op and condo market slowed somewhat in January and early
February, as weather greatly inhibited buyer traffic. Sales prices for apartments were flat in
Manhattan but continued to trend up in Brooklyn. Similarly, the market for apartment rentals has
remained steady, with rents edging down in Manhattan but rising in Brooklyn. Weather has also
been a factor in northern New Jersey since mid-December for both sales and new construction,
though the underlying fundamentals also remain weak: mortgage delinquencies remain high, and a
stubbornly high inventory of distressed properties is dampening market conditions. The multi-family
market in northern New Jersey (mostly rentals) is reported to be faring well. Commercial real estate markets were stable to slightly stronger in early 2014. In New York
City, office leasing activity was characterized as very brisk; but this was accompanied by several
new spaces becoming available in both Downtown and Midtown Manhattan, leaving the overall
availability rate little changed. Asking rents for office space, however, continued to rise and were up
6 to 9 percent from a year earlier. Elsewhere around the District both office availability rates and
rents were little changed in early 2014. In general, the market for prime (Class A) space has
underperformed the rest of the office market. Industrial vacancy rates were mostly steady to down
slightly across the District, while asking rents were little changed.
Other Business Activity The labor market has shown further signs of gradual improvement in early 2014. Business
contacts in both the manufacturing and service sector report steady to rising employment; and more
firms plan to increase than reduce staffing levels in the months ahead—particularly in the
manufacturing sector. Separately, a major employment agency specializing in office jobs reports that
the market continues to improve gradually, though weather appears to have been somewhat of a
deterrent to hiring. Many job postings are challenging to fill because they call for specialized skills;
salaries generally remain flat.

 II-4 Manufacturing firms in the District report a slight pickup in activity in early 2014, on net,
whereas service sector businesses have seen a pullback—apparently driven, in large part, by the
inclement weather. Still, business contacts remain widely optimistic about the near-term outlook.
Overall, price pressures remain stable and generally subdued in the manufacturing sector but have
grown increasingly widespread among service-sector businesses.
Financial Developments Small to medium-sized banks across the District report a further decrease in demand for
consumer loans and residential mortgages but no change in demand for commercial mortgages and
commercial & industrial loans. Bankers also indicate a decrease in demand for refinancing.
Respondents note that credit standards were unchanged across all loan categories. Respondents
indicate a decrease in spreads of loan rates over costs of funds for commercial loans and commercial
& industrial loans, but report no change in other categories. Respondents indicate little or no change
in average deposit rates. Finally, bankers report modest declines in delinquency rates, on balance, for
all loan categories.

 III - 1 THIRD DISTRICT – PHILADELPHIA Severe winter weather caused aggregate business activity in the Third District to decline
slightly during the current Beige Book period (beginning with the first full week of January).
Nearly all sectors were impacted; however, only a few sectors are expected to suffer permanent
losses, according to contacts. For example, while many general retailers have had to realize their
losses by heavily discounting their winter inventory, auto dealers anticipate a release of pent-up
demand when spring arrives. The general services sector was the only one to maintain some growth in this period, but
even it slowed to a modest growth rate. After growing in the previous Beige Book period,
general retail sales and residential construction declined moderately; auto sales, existing home
sales, and commercial real estate construction declined modestly; and manufacturing,
commercial leasing activity, and tourism declined slightly. Staffing services showed little net
change after growing modestly over previous periods. Lending volumes also changed little
change this period but credit quality continued to improve. Contacts reported slight overall
increases in wages, home prices, and general price levels – similar to the last Beige Book period. Despite the temporary declines in many sectors, most contacts remained optimistic
although they now expect only modest growth over the next six months. Contacts in most sectors
continued to express confidence in the underlying economy. In regard to hiring and capital
expenditure plans, firms continued to expand cautiously. Manufacturing. Third District manufacturers reported deteriorating levels of activity
through the current Beige Book period, as severe winter weather repeatedly disrupted sales and
production. A slight pace of growth in orders and shipments as reported for the last period
continued for several weeks then gave way to slight overall declines by the end of this Beige
Book period. The share of all firms reporting increases in general activity fell from about one-
third to one-fourth, while the share reporting decreases rose from about one-fourth to one-third.
The makers of paper products, fabricated metals, industrial machinery, and instruments have
reported gains since the last Beige Book. Reports of decreases came from the makers of food
products, chemicals, primary metals, and electronic and other electric equipment. About 40
percent of manufacturers cited negative impacts from the severe winter weather, including lower
demand or sales, disruptions to supply channels and to deliveries, fuel and power outages, lost
production days, and cost of snow removal. Optimism that business conditions will improve over the next six months remained nearly
as high as last period and continued to be widespread across sectors. Over half of the firms
continued to anticipate increases in activity; however, firms were somewhat less optimistic about
new orders and shipments six months out. Contacts reported similar expectations of future hiring
and greater expenditures for future capital spending plans than during the prior Beige Book. Retail. Third District retailers reported that malls and stores lost shopping days to snow
storms and power outages, including significant holiday weekends, resulting in an overall

 III - 2
moderate decline in sales since the last Beige Book. According to one mall contact, Valentine’s
Day weekend typically accounts for 40 percent of February sales, but the holiday’s sales were off
40 percent this year due to a weekend snowstorm. Retailers have engaged in heavy discounting
to move winter gear due to a dearth of shoppers. Also, spring inventory is not moving yet. In
addition, retailers’ margins have eroded from higher heating bills and snow removal costs. Brick-
and-mortar retailers expressed uncertainty as to whether consumers have held on to their holiday
gift cards or used them at online retailers. Although most of the lost sales opportunities are gone,
retailers are hopeful that some pent-up demand will emerge as temperatures rise and that the
prior pace of retail sales growth will resume. Auto dealers have reported a modest decline in sales since the last Beige Book period –
another casualty of the recurring winter snowstorms. Dealers’ lots were covered with snow; car
buyers were scarce. Pennsylvania dealers expect sales to be off at least 15 percent (year over
year) in February, while January sales were up a little. New Jersey dealers reported relative
softness, adjusting for seasonal trends through January, although last year’s comparative sales
were boosted by replacement vehicles following Hurricane Sandy. Contacts in both states
described dealers as currently “pretty grouchy, but upbeat for the year.” Auto dealers harbor
greater hopes than general retailers that spring sales will capture pent-up demand from the winter
losses. The outlook for 2014 remains positive. Finance. Third District financial firms reported little overall change in total loan volume.
Many loan categories appeared to decline slightly in volume. Credit card lending fell faster;
however, that is a typical seasonal trend as consumers pay down their post-holiday balances. In
contrast, other consumer credit loans and home equity lines have grown slightly since the last
Beige Book period. Contacts continued to characterize the lending environment as steady, very
slow, and highly competitive. Real estate lending softened considerably as the wintry weather
reduced the pace of new contracts. Despite this current softness, contacts described an improving
lending environment with a stronger labor market, greater consumer confidence, and healthier
balance sheets. Overall, most bankers remained optimistic for continued slow, steady growth and
for some pickup from pent-up demand for housing, autos, and other loans when the spring thaw
finally arrives. Real Estate and Construction. Third District homebuilders have reported that both new
home sales and construction activity were depressed by the unusually severe winter weather,
generating moderate declines from the prior-period construction levels. One builder reported
production at 60 percent of plan, while sales were only about 50 percent of plan. Builders expect
to accelerate production and catch up with prior schedules as the weather permits, and they are
hopeful that spring sales may rebound. However, extra overtime coupled with increased demand
from future sales may create labor shortages and escalate other input costs. According to
residential real estate brokers, sales of existing homes were flat to down (year over year) in many
of the Third District’s major metropolitan areas in January. Pending sales and new listings were
also reported as declining at a modest pace; February closings, traffic, and sales are expected to

 III - 3
be negative throughout most of the District. Brokers are somewhat less bullish for a significant
increase in 2014 over 2013 levels. Nonresidential real estate contacts indicated some weather disruptions have delayed
ongoing construction activity. Modest declines in current construction are expected to be offset
in the near future as contractors hustle to resume their schedules. Leasing activity was quiet – as
businesses were often shuttered – but is expected to resume its modest pace next period. Little
change was reported in leasing activity. Two more major buildings were announced for Center
City Philadelphia since the last Beige Book: a 59-story major office tower and a 32-story
residential tower. Added to the two 47-story office/residential towers already slated for
groundbreaking in 2014, these four projects have caused most contacts to become increasingly
optimistic for stronger growth as the year progresses. Meanwhile, most contacts speak of
incremental improvement, despite the winter lull. Services. Third District service-sector firms have slowed to a modest pace of growth
since the last Beige Book – again with weather dampening demand for a variety of services.
Although the District’s ski resorts benefited from the additional snowfall, even they were
plagued by the storms’ timing, which made travel to the resorts difficult on several weekends. In
addition, school districts that have amassed too many snow days may shorten spring breaks
resulting in cancelation of vacation bookings. Some have already interfered with the Presidents’
Day weekend by holding classes. Other service firms reported mostly modest growth rates – whittled down from recent
moderate rates, as heavy snowfalls and power outages prevented workers from commuting and
businesses from opening. As with general retail, some of the service-sector revenue will not be
recouped after the snow has melted. For example, staffing firms cite the loss of billable hours
that will not be made up. Other segments of the staffing industry offset those losses with slight
growth. Overall, most of service-sector losses were viewed as manageable, and most contacts
expect current activity to resume and grow. Prices and Wages. Overall, Third District contacts reported no change to the steady,
slight pace of price level increases, similar to other recent Beige Books. Manufacturing firms
reported that prices paid and prices received tended to rise slightly, but more modestly than
before. Auto dealers reported little change in pricing, general retailers reported deep discounting,
and most builders reported holding prices steady. Many contacts continued to report tight, or
narrowing, margins. Generally, real estate contacts continued to report rising prices for lower-
priced homes, while higher-priced homes are aligned to local market conditions. Very few
contacts are seeing wage pressures, other than for a few highly skilled occupations.

 IV - 1 FOURTH DISTRICT – CLEVELAND Overall business activity in the Fourth District continued at a moderate pace early in
2014. While the severe weather contributed to some temporary slowing across industry sectors,
it was viewed mainly as an inconvenience. Demand for manufactured products remained at a
moderate to robust level. Activity in the construction sector slackened a bit compared to the
same time period a year ago. Post-holiday retail purchases were characterized as disappointing.
In contrast, January’s auto sales showed strong gains month-over-month. The energy sector was
little changed: shale gas activity stayed at a high level, and coal production trended lower.
Freight volume was slightly higher. Demand for business credit showed little movement,
whereas consumer credit usage was somewhat better than expected. Hiring was sluggish across most industry sectors, though we are seeing a pickup in
manufacturing jobs. Staffing-firm representatives reported that the number of job openings is
trending higher, while placements are flat. Vacancies were found primarily in manufacturing and
healthcare. Wage pressures were contained. Input and finished goods prices saw little change,
apart from some increases in building materials, energy, and diesel fuel. Manufacturing. Reports from District factories indicated that demand stayed at a
moderate to robust level during the past six weeks. Any production declines were attributed to
the severe winter weather disrupting raw material deliveries or to seasonal variation. Supply
chain disruptions were viewed more as an annoyance than an event that could negatively impact
business activity. Compared to a year ago, production levels were generally consistent or
somewhat higher. Almost all of our respondents expect production will rise relative to current
levels in the upcoming months, with the strongest demand coming from the aerospace, capital
equipment, housing, and oil and gas industries. Since the beginning of the year, steel shipments
grew slightly—mainly a seasonal effect. Producers predicted that their industry will not exhibit
strong growth until there is considerable strengthening in the construction sector and a greater
sense of confidence in the economy at large. Steel shipments for the remainder of the first
quarter are expected to pick up only slightly. Auto production at District plants increased along
seasonal trends during January on a month-over-month basis. Compared to a year ago,
production was moderately higher. Several factory representatives commented that capacity utilization rates were above their
normal range or were increasing in the last six weeks, while steel producers noted significant
open capacity. Capital budgets for 2014 are generally higher than last year, although very few
contacts are allocating monies for capacity expansion. Outlays are being used primarily for
equipment purchases, product development, and maintenance. Raw material prices were mainly
flat to lower. We heard a few reports of an upward drift in scrap metal and agricultural
commodity prices after coming off of last year’s low level. Energy prices (electricity and natural
gas) rose, which was attributed to the severe weather. Some producers of industrial durables
raised prices at the beginning of the year with little pushback. Otherwise, most manufacturers
reported that their ability to raise prices has been limited. Job markets are showing some signs of

 IV - 2
strengthening, with half of our respondents indicating that they are hiring production and salaried
workers. Wage increases are expected to be slightly higher in 2014 compared to the past couple
of years. A growing number of employers are passing through rising healthcare costs to their
employees. Construction. Sales of new and existing single-family homes across much of the
District were significantly higher in 2013 relative to the prior year, while average sale prices
showed a moderate increase. Builders reported that sales of new single-family homes slowed
during the first few weeks of 2014, which they attributed to the extreme cold. Web traffic
trended higher. New-home contracts were found mainly in the mid-price category, and the
selling prices of new homes continued to stabilize. Reports indicated that multifamily housing
remains the strongest segment in the District’s construction sector, and some believe there is a
risk of overbuilding. Nonetheless, rents are expected to rise 3 to 4 percent this year. Builders
anticipate that the housing market will grow at a steady pace in 2014. The pace of activity in nonresidential construction has slowed a bit relative to the same
time period a year ago. Builders said that while inquiries, many from first-time customers, are
strong, projects keep dropping out of the pipeline due to financing issues or a last minute
decision not to proceed. Backlogs are down slightly, and the severe winter weather has slowed
fieldwork. Demand was strongest for industrial and institutional building, including flex-space,
distribution, manufacturing, student housing, and senior living. Our contacts remain fairly
optimistic about near-term prospects, and they are anticipating moderate growth this year. Prices for drywall, steel, and plumbing fixtures are trending higher. General contractors
reported satisfaction with current staffing levels and will only hire for replacement or if business
activity rises above expectations. Reports of rising costs related to healthcare were widespread.
There is concern among small builders that employees may lose their employer-paid insurance.
One report indicated that a growing number of builders are offering employees a lump sum
payment to purchase their own health insurance rather than offering it as a benefit. Consumer Spending. Almost all retailers we contacted expressed disappointment with
January sales. Revenues were below those seen in December, and they were down compared to
a year earlier. Cold-weather gear and consumables were in highest demand. Most of the decline
was attributed to persistently poor weather conditions. However, two retailers commented that
part of the decline is related to a fundamental shift in how consumers spend money. A furniture
dealer reported that his customers are less inclined to buy quality goods that can be handed
down. Rather, consumers are buying only what they need and are looking for the best value.
Projections for the second quarter call for sales to be modestly higher relative to those in the first
quarter. Vendor and shelf prices held steady, though a few retailers noted that they are running
more promotions than normal. One contact reported that he has been introducing more products
at a lower price point. This year’s capital budgets will be mainly higher than in 2013. Most of
the monies are allocated for opening new stores and e-commerce expansion. Hiring will be
limited to staffing new stores and e-commerce support.

 IV - 3 The number of new motor vehicles sold in January was significantly higher than in
December. On a year-over-year basis, sales showed a modest increase. Buyers continued to
shift from smaller, fuel-efficient cars to SUVs, crossovers, and light trucks. One dealer told us
that truck sales in the southwest region of the District rose 11 percent last year, which he believes
reflects an uptick in commercial and construction activity. New-vehicle inventories were
described as slightly elevated, which was attributed to leftover 2013 models and the extreme
weather. Used-vehicle purchases during January were slightly ahead of those in December and
on a year-over-year basis. Expectations for sales of new and used vehicles are positive. Dealers
cited the arrival of income tax returns and interest generated by regional auto shows. Used
inventory will start building due to the expiration of 2011 leases. Payrolls held steady. Banking. Demand for business credit showed little movement. Brisk competition
continues to put downward pressure on loan pricing. Consumer credit demand grew slightly
since our last report, primarily for auto loans and home equity products. Residential mortgage
activity picked up a little, more so in the new-purchase market. Several bankers raised concerns
about recently enacted regulations and their potential negative impact on lending. Delinquency
rates were stable or trended lower. Bankers reported no significant changes to loan-application
standards. On net, core deposits were flat: increases by consumers were offset by declines in
commercial deposits. Little net growth in staffing is expected. Many new job openings are in
the areas of regulatory compliance and IT. Energy. January’s aggregate coal production across the District fell below year-ago
levels. Going forward, little change in output is projected. Spot prices for metallurgical and
steam coal were flat. The number of drilling rigs in Ohio’s Utica shale region has increased
since the beginning of the year. Natural gas production was stable and continuing at a high level.
Cold weather helped boost wellhead prices for natural gas and oil. Reports on capital spending
were mixed, although one respondent commented that his firm plans to increase funding to its
drilling-program in Marcellus and Utica shales by 80 percent year-over-year. Production
equipment and materials prices were flat. Hiring was for replacement only. Freight Transportation. Freight executives reported that it is difficult to gauge changes
in shipping volume due to supply chain disruptions attributed to severe weather. Nonetheless,
most respondents believe volume has risen slightly year-over-year. Shipments of motor vehicles
and machinery were strong. The industry outlook for 2014 is somewhat less favorable than in our
previous report. Most of our contacts now expect volume will be in-line or moderately higher
than a year ago. Recently enacted environmental and safety regulations are constraining capacity
and putting upward pressure on rates. Diesel fuel prices moved higher in January. Operators
have been unable to pass through the entire increase via surcharges. Reports on capital spending
plans for 2014 were mixed. The industry is hiring primarily for replacement and to maintain
capacity.

 V-1 FIFTH DISTRICT–RICHMOND Overview. Economic activity in the Fifth District increased modestly on balance, despite snow,
ice, and unusually cold temperatures that caused many business closings. Manufacturing operations
generally slowed as winter storms closed some plants, although a few firms reported an uptick in new
orders. Retail sales increased modestly overall, even though many stores and auto dealerships closed
during the snow storms. While some retailers benefitted from increased demand for cold-weather items,
auto sales declined. Non-retail service providers reported flat revenues in recent weeks. In contrast,
tourism and corporate travel picked up, and hoteliers reported strong bookings. Consumer borrowing
slowed since the start of the year, while commercial lending remained strong, with several bankers
reporting a healthy pipeline for business lending. Residential real estate strengthened, with Realtors
reporting faster absorption in some submarkets. In addition, construction of single family homes has been
slowly improving, while multi-family housing remained strong. Non-residential construction was
generally soft. Commercial leasing ranged from no change to a slight increase since our last report.
Agricultural activity slowed seasonally, while contacts were optimistic about a good year ahead. In the
energy sector, natural gas production accelerated. In contrast, coal mining fell and some steam coal plants
closed. District labor markets were mixed in recent weeks, as extreme weather affected production and
services. However, demand was high for semi-skilled workers; also, more quality temp employees were
being offered permanent work. According to our latest survey, employment declined at retail
establishments and increased at non-retail services firms, while average wages rose across the service
sector. Manufacturing employment slowed and average wages ticked up. Service sector prices advanced
more quickly, while manufacturing prices increased at a slower pace. Manufacturing. Manufacturing activity slowed in recent weeks, with winter storms affecting
business operations throughout the District. There were a few weather-related plant closures since our last
report, totaling between three and four days. In one instance, a North Carolina food manufacturer stated
that recent storms caused his plant to close for a few days, resulting in lost wages, hours, and production.
A few District plant managers said that the facility downtime would reduce shipments, and in February,
survey respondents also indicated that shipments and new orders declined. However, some manufacturers
reported that new orders have risen slightly and plants are working to catch up after a slow start in
January. A metals manufacturer in South Carolina reported an increase in January sales, slight growth in
export sales, and a stronger March forecast. Overall, contacts expected improvement in the spring. Prices
of raw materials and finished goods rose at a slower pace, according to our survey. Ports. Reports from port officials were mixed but indicated that activity increased overall. Auto
imports remained robust, and container volume continued to be strong and growing year over year,
particularly at the Port of Virginia. Exports of agricultural materials leveled off in Baltimore, while in

 V-2
Charleston, South Carolina, exports of containerized grains and soybeans were very strong. International
coal exports declined slightly while coal shipments to domestic locations fell sharply. Dockworkers at the
Port of Baltimore with unresolved labor contracts have remained on the job as mediators work toward a
conclusion. Seasonal slowdowns related to the Chinese New Year are expected to last into mid-March. Retail. District retailers reported modest revenue growth, restrained in part by the unusually cold
temperatures and multiple winter storms that forced many stores and auto dealerships to close
temporarily. An auto dealership in West Virginia reported getting 18 to 20 inches of snow, with only one
customer on the lot the next day. Sales of weather-related goods were up for a chain hardware merchant
in central Virginia, and the manager of a West Virginia sporting goods store said that the weather helped
sales, despite declining foot traffic. Post-holiday discounting boosted sales at several stores in January
following mediocre results in December. The manager of a discount department store in the Tidewater
area of Virginia reported little change in recent weeks and noted that 2013 had ended with sales below the
previous year. Looking ahead, a representative of central Virginia retailers stated that with Easter falling
in late April, merchants have more time for promotions, especially for warm-weather apparel. Retail price
growth accelerated moderately. Services. Revenues at non-retail services firms remained flat since our last report. An executive
at a national freight trucking firm reported that he still expects double-digit tonnage growth in the first
quarter, despite closed roads and terminals as winter storms moved across the country. However, several
other businesses reported no change in demand for their services, and an executive at a wealth
management firm in central Virginia described business as “status quo,” even with improved client
optimism. An executive at a North Carolina healthcare system reported that flu cases were below typical
seasonal levels. Services prices edged up at a slightly faster pace. Tourism was booming at winter resorts, as natural snowfalls were abundant and colder
temperatures allowed additional snowmaking. In several locations, mid-February bookings were solid
because Valentine’s Day and Presidents’ Day sandwiched a weekend. However, an hotelier commented
that this pushed bookings into one good weekend instead of two. A hotel manager in western North
Carolina reported strong bookings and also noted a shift to more transient visits than conference or group
bookings in recent weeks. In contrast, a contact in Baltimore saw increased corporate travel. On the Outer
Banks of North Carolina, visitors now expect a package “experience” when renting a home, such as
included linens, tickets to events, and restaurant coupons. Finance. Since our last report, consumer borrowing slowed considerably while commercial
lending remained strong. Several contacts indicated that residential mortgage lending had nearly come to
a halt, in part because of this winter’s extreme weather. However, a Virginia lender believed that the
demand for new homes is there, but that people are “just trying to survive the weather right now.”

 V-3
Mortgage refinancing activity also declined in most areas. Interest rates flattened recently, after a decline
in January. Meanwhile, credit standards remained tight, according to two bankers. According to sources, commercial lending picked up. Several bankers reported that loan volumes
were robust and that they had a healthy pipeline for the future. One lender said that businesses were
looking for shorter term commercial real estate loans in order to benefit from the lower interest rates that
those loans offer. Real Estate. Residential real estate strengthened since our last report. Several brokers reported a
slight increase in home sales in recent weeks and generally higher sale prices. In addition, buyer traffic
and pending sales rose in the past four to six weeks, although a few Realtors noted slowness due to winter
weather conditions. A Northern Virginia Realtor commented that sales were more robust than expected,
particularly in the high-end market. However, most brokers indicated steady improvement in the
$200,000 to $500,000 price range. Realtors reported a mild decrease in housing inventory, with faster
absorption in some submarkets. Construction of multifamily housing remained strong since our last report. In addition, single-
family residential construction is returning throughout the district, according to contacts, but has been
“slow to come out of the ground” primarily due to weather conditions. Other than in Washington, D.C.,
non-residential construction was softer. Commercial leasing ranged from unchanged to slightly stronger,
with inquiries mainly for small spaces. While most Realtors reported little change in concessions and
incentives, some in Washington D.C. and Northern Virginia saw more concessions, in the form of tenant
improvements. Reports on vacancy rates varied across location and submarket. Lease rates were
unchanged and sale prices rose mildly. Realtors reported either no change or a slight increase in demand
for Class A office space. Agriculture and Natural Resources. According to agriculture contacts, crop prices declined in
recent weeks. Falling feed costs and higher cattle prices led contacts to believe it will be a good year for
livestock producers. Also, farmers expect an increase in poultry production. However, a North Carolina
respondent was concerned about an increase in swine virus in his region. A Virginia nursery owner stated
that recent cold weather damage, if any, will not be known for a month or two; even so, he expects a ten
percent increase in year-over-year sales this spring. A North Carolina agri-business contact reported that
tobacco and vegetable producers in his region were cautiously optimistic for the year ahead. In South
Carolina, recent ice storms have caused timber damage that is still being assessed. Natural gas production remained robust. A West Virginia executive reported “incredible” industry
growth and noted that shale gas has fundamentally changed the industry outlook. Contacts remarked that
energy prices had risen due to increased demand during the extremely cold weather, and a few businesses
reduced usage as a result of the higher cost. An executive also noted that two nuclear power plants are
expected to shut down because of high licensing costs. Coal mining continued to soften. Several

 V-4
observers have stated that while steam coal plants experienced closings, metallurgical coal is holding its
own―but overall the coal industry is weak at best. In West Virginia, leaking chemicals from a coal
processing plant were found in public drinking water, and in North Carolina coal ash was discovered
leaking into a river. Labor Markets. Reports on labor were mixed, as weather-related shutdowns slowed hiring slightly.
Demand was strong for semi-skilled workers, project-based laborers, government and healthcare workers,
and experienced administrative professionals. Increasingly, quality temporary workers were being offered
permanent positions. Turnover remained high among low skill positions. According to our latest survey,
retailers reduced employment and average retail wages declined slightly, while non-retail services
providers moderately increased payrolls and average wages rose. Manufacturing employment slowed and
average wages edged up.

 VI-1 SIXTH DISTRICT – ATLANTA Sixth District business contacts described economic activity as expanding slowly in January
and early February. Some weather related effects were noted for a few sectors late in the period.
However, the outlook remains generally optimistic as most contacts expect near-term growth to be
sustained at, or slightly above, current levels. Overall, retailers cited sluggish sales growth for the beginning of the year. The District's
tourism industry remained a bright spot with activity being bolstered by international visitors.
Homebuilders and brokers noted home sales and prices were above year-ago levels for new and
existing homes, while commercial real estate markets continued to witness steady improvements.
Manufacturers reported increases in new orders and production. Reports from bankers suggested
that loan demand increased for purchases but decreased for refinances. On balance, District
employment gains were subdued and prices generally remained stable. Consumer Spending and Tourism. Merchants reported a slow start to the year with sales
growth declining. Many contacts noted that the drop in sales growth was partially attributed to the
unusual winter weather experienced in parts of the region. Others indicated that increased
healthcare premiums were having a negative impact. Sales for vehicles were lower than expected. Hospitality contacts reported an increase in business and convention bookings. Reports also
indicated that the favorable U.S. dollar exchange rate was a contributing factor to a rise in
international visitors. However, contacts did convey that some of the region affected by the unusual
winter weather in January and February experienced losses in revenue due to closures of attractions
and restaurants, although most hotels were not as adversely affected. Hoteliers still expect only
slight growth in occupancy rates for the first quarter of 2014 compared to the same period last year,
while room rates and revenue per available room are expected to grow more robustly. Real Estate and Construction. District brokers indicated that growth in existing home
sales had picked up modestly in recent months. Most brokers said sales were slightly up compared
with a year earlier and more contacts noted that sales activity was in line with their plan for the
period. By most accounts, inventory levels had fallen on a year-over-year basis. The majority of
contacts reported that home prices remained ahead of the year earlier level but that price gains have
slowed on a month-over-month basis. The outlook among residential brokers continued to improve
since our last report. Reports from District builders were more positive than previous reports. Most contacts
agreed that recent activity was in line with their plan for the period. The majority of builders

 VI-2
reported that construction activity and new home sales were ahead of the year earlier level, although
most reports indicated that unsold inventory levels had remained unchanged from a year ago. The
majority of contacts also reported modest home price appreciation. The outlook for new home sales
and construction activity remained positive, although many builders expressed concern about
dwindling lot inventories and their inability to secure the financing needed to develop new lots. District brokers noted that demand for commercial real estate continued to improve.
Absorption was picking up, although contacts cautioned that the rate of improvement still varied by
metropolitan area, submarket, and property type. Construction activity continued to increase at a
modest pace from last year; most contacts reported that their backlog was ahead of year earlier
levels. Looking ahead, contacts expect that construction activity in apartments will continue to be
somewhat strong in 2014 and that there will be a modest increase in construction activity across
other property types. The outlook among District commercial real estate contacts remained positive
with further improvements expected over the course of the year. Manufacturing and Transportation. Manufacturing contacts in the region cited
expanding activity from January through mid-February, but the pace of growth was moderate.
Contacts reported improvements in new orders and production. However, a number of contacts
stated that the unusual winter weather affected production in late January and output was lower than
planned for that month. That said, nearly two-thirds of purchasing managers polled expect
production levels to be higher over the next three to six months. District transportation firms reported mixed results. Air cargo contacts cited nearly double-
digit declines in overall tonnage from a year ago. Port contacts reported year-over-year volume
increases in container traffic, bulk cargo, and automotive and machinery. Total rail carloads were
down slightly over the same period last year; however, intermodal volumes continued to experience
modest gains. Banking and Finance. Banking and credit union contacts expressed mixed concern about
the implementation of the new Qualified Mortgage Rules. Some community bankers reported that
they have exited the residential mortgage business altogether because of increased regulatory
burdens, while others indicated that they do not believe it will have a negative effect on overall
mortgage lending. A number of lenders reported increases in purchase mortgages, but not enough to
offset the declines in refinances. Regional credit unions were reportedly offering highly
competitive rates on CDs to attract deposits in order to sustain lending activity. Employment and Prices. Since the last report, job growth remained muted across the
District. Contacts in construction, manufacturing, energy, hospitality, and real estate noted modest

 VI-3
growth in employment. Trucking companies continued to cite driver shortages even amidst rising
pay. Rather than adding to payrolls, businesses reportedly continued to rely on technology to
enhance output. Some employers continued to show reluctance in large-scale hiring due to concerns
about healthcare reform. Most contacts reported modest and relatively stable labor and material cost pressures.
Construction industry contacts remained a notable exception, indicating strong upward pressure on
labor costs and some materials prices. According to the Atlanta Fed’s February business inflation
expectations (BIE) survey, costs were up 1.7 percent from a year ago and were expected to pick up
slightly to 2.0 percent over the coming 12 months. In general, businesses continued to indicate that
they had little to no pricing power. Natural Resources and Agriculture. Strong production growth coupled with higher
pipeline capacity continued to supply Gulf Coast refiners with ample light sweet crude. Natural gas
storage levels were reported as notably low due to increased withdrawals that were exacerbated by
the unusually severe weather. Commercial and residential demand for utilities increased
significantly as a result of the weather, yet industrial usage remained fairly consistent with seasonal
norms. The energy industry remains optimistic regarding their outlook for demand, pricing, and
productivity. Recent rains improved soil conditions in parts of Florida and Georgia while portions of
Alabama, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Tennessee experienced dry soil conditions. Meanwhile,
freezing temperatures and cold winds had farmers and livestock producers taking precautions to
mitigate damage to crops and livestock throughout much of the District. There were mixed reports
of the impact on Florida crops with some indicating damage to vegetable and strawberry crops and
others suggesting no damage to citrus. However, the Florida citrus crop continues to be adversely
affected by citrus greening causing diminished production and increased expense battling the
disease. On a year-over-year basis, prices paid to farmers for corn, soybeans, hogs, and broilers
were down; while cotton, rice, oranges, beef, and eggs were up. The most recent domestic crop
production forecasts for corn, rice, soybeans, oranges, and cotton were unchanged from a month
ago. Similarly, pork and broilers projections were down moderately while beef projections were up
slightly.

 VII-1 SEVENTH DISTRICT—CHICAGO Summary. Growth in economic activity in the Seventh District slowed in January and
February, as severe winter weather affected activity in a number of sectors. The modest pace of
growth to start the year tempered contacts’ expectations only somewhat, as most generally
maintained their optimistic outlook for 2014. Growth in consumer and business spending slowed.
Manufacturing production growth and construction activity were modest. Credit conditions were
little changed on balance. Cost pressures remained generally mild, though extreme temperatures
caused energy prices to spike. Prices for corn, soybeans, and livestock were up slightly. Consumer spending. Growth in consumer spending slowed to a modest pace in January
and February. Some retail categories initially benefitted from the poor winter weather, in large part
reflecting increased outlays for necessities. However, retail contacts said that once necessary items
were purchased, the persistent bad weather led to declining customer traffic and sales. Auto dealers
also noted that the weather contributed to lower showroom traffic and sales. However, some
contacts pointed to wavering consumer confidence as an alternative reason for lower auto sales.
Many dealers expected incentives to increase in the near-term in an effort to rejuvenate sales. Business spending. Growth in business spending also slowed to a modest pace in January
and February. Inventories remained at comfortable levels for most retailers and manufacturers.
Growth in capital spending slowed somewhat, while plans for future capital expenditures edged
higher. Several manufacturing contacts reported plans to purchase new equipment to increase
capacity. Contacts in the manufacturing, banking and finance, and retail sectors reported plans for
expansion, either by building or buying new structures or through mergers and acquisitions. The
pace of hiring slowed, as did expectations of future hiring, though expectations for the coming year
remained positive. A staffing firm reported continued growth in demand for its industrial services,
despite some weather-related closures. In contrast, growth in demand for its professional services
weakened. A banking contact noted an increase in layoffs due to declining mortgage refinancing.
Many contacts noted continuing strength in the demand for skilled workers, with positions often
difficult to fill in engineering, information technology, accounting, and other technical occupations. Construction and real estate. Construction and real estate activity again increased
modestly in January and February. However, the pace of growth slowed over the reporting period,
with homebuilders reporting that the unusually cold weather had added to costs and led to
construction delays. The weather also affected home sales, as several contacts indicated that the

 VII-2
cold had dampened new buyer activity. Overall, however, the housing market continued to improve
slowly, with home prices and residential rents rising modestly. Real estate brokers noted that the
supply of homes for sale remains low, and many homes continue to be purchased with cash because
lending standards remain tight. In addition, several contacts indicated that the continued limited
availability of new construction financing has kept new home inventories near record lows.
Nonresidential construction grew slowly, with one contact noting that industrial building activity
had paused in recent weeks. Commercial real estate activity ticked up, as vacancies declined and
rents rose. Niche, high-income properties remain a source of strength for the sector, particularly for
restaurants and office buildings. Manufacturing. Manufacturing production growth slowed to a modest pace in January and
February, as unusually bad winter weather dampened the demand for manufactured goods and
disrupted supply chains. However, manufacturing contacts remained optimistic, generally believing
that overall economic conditions remained positive. The auto industry remained a source of strength
for the District, even with a weather-related slowdown in sales. The weather also had a significant
effect on the demand for steel, though contacts were preparing to meet any pent-up demand that
developed during the reporting period. The severe weather conditions also affected the production
and transportation of goods. For example, a steel industry contact reported that there were seven
days in the last six weeks where his firm could not send shipments, a first in his thirty-five years of
experience. Steel service centers reported reduced demand, while specialty metal manufacturers
cited mixed but overall modest growth in new orders. Manufacturers of construction materials noted
fewer shipments because of the weather, but continued to have a positive near-term outlook for the
housing market. Demand for heavy machinery remained soft, as weakness in the mining and
agricultural industries overshadowed increasing strength in the construction and energy industries. Banking/finance. Credit conditions were little changed on balance over the reporting
period. Equity market volatility increased and corporate bond spreads widened some. Banking
contacts reported slow but steady growth in business loan demand, but greater demand for
purchases of equipment and owner-occupied real estate. Activity in the leveraged loan market
picked up, with contacts noting increased competition from commercial finance companies and
greater demand on the secondary market. Agricultural contacts reported that banks were helping
farms restructure costs for the coming season to shore up margins. However, in some cases troubled
farmers were forced to search for new lenders when denied credit. Growth in consumer loan

 VII-3
demand remained modest, again led by the relative strength of auto lending. Contacts noted
moderate downward pressure on pricing and standards across a variety of loan categories. Prices/costs. Cost pressures remained mild overall. However, the severe winter weather
pushed up prices for energy commodities, creating supply shortages and disruptive price spikes in
some areas, especially for propane and natural gas. For instance, a contact reported that a grain
elevator withdrew its propane from storage and resold it for home use. Another business contact
reported that because homes have priority in natural gas delivery, her company faced a supply
shortage and was forced to shift its production schedule. Other producers chose to delay production
rather than pay high prices. Most contacts expected energy markets to return to normal once warmer
weather arrives. Prices for cement, drywall, lumber, copper, and rare earth metals rose. Prices for
steel, scrap, and iron ore were lower even though the winter weather interrupted shipments. Wage
pressures edged up, and were stronger for skilled workers. Many contacts indicated that non-wage
labor costs increased because of higher healthcare premiums. Agriculture. Severe winter weather disrupted the flow of agricultural products between
farms and markets during the reporting period. Crops that were sold stayed on farms longer than
intended as transportation problems delayed shipments. Contacts also reported shortages of trucks
and drivers to deliver inventories from the large harvest last fall. Demand for crops has been better
than expected, particularly for corn, pushing inventories lower and prices higher. Soybean prices
drifted up as uncertainty regarding the harvest in South America weighed on markets. Concerns
about high costs for land rentals were also widespread. Livestock producers reported improving
bottom lines driven by higher prices for milk, hogs, and cattle combined with lower feed costs.
However, some hog farms reported losses of young pigs because of disease. Dairy producers have
seen a boost in demand from exports.

 VIII-1 Eighth District - St. Louis
Summary The economy of the Eighth District has continued to grow at a moderate pace since the previous
survey. Recent reports of planned activity in manufacturing have been positive, while reports in services
have been negative on net. Residential and commercial real estate market conditions have continued to
improve. Lending at a sample of District banks was little changed during the fourth quarter of 2013.
Wage increases have been moderate, while prices and employment levels have increased modestly.
Consumer Spending Contacts reported that retail sales in the past three months increased slightly compared with the
same period last year. Two thirds of contacts noted somewhat higher sales, while one third saw no
change. Half of the retailers reported that sales levels met their expectations, while the other half reported
that sales were below expectations. Three fourths of contacts noted that inventories were at desired levels,
and the rest noted that inventories were too low. Three fourths of contacts noted no change in the mix of
high- and low-end products, while the rest noted more sales of high-end relative to low-end products. Reports from auto dealers about sales in the past three months were mixed. One in four car
dealers surveyed saw increased sales compared with the same period last year; half saw no change, and
the rest saw decreased sales. Half of contacts reported an increase in used car sales relative to new car
sales; 12 percent reported the opposite, and the rest saw no change. Thirty-eight percent of contacts
reported increased sales of low-end vehicles relative to high-end vehicles; 25 percent reported the
opposite, and the rest saw no change. Sixty-three percent of contacts noted that inventories were at
desired levels, while 37 percent noted that inventories were too high.
Manufacturing and Other Business Activity Reports of plans for manufacturing activity have been positive since our previous report. Several
manufacturing firms reported plans to add workers or expand operations in the Eighth District, while a
smaller number of manufacturers reported plans to reduce employment. Firms in automobile, plastic
products, auto parts, appliance, food, alcoholic beverage, and machinery manufacturing plan to hire new

 VIII-2
employees and expand operations in the Eighth District. In contrast, firms that manufacture television
sets, semiconductor devices, metal products, and carbonated beverages reported plans to lay off workers.
According to a recent survey, manufacturers saw increased sales over the past three months, compared
with a year ago. Several industrial contacts noted disruptions in operations because of cold weather;
disruptions included gas or electricity outages, difficulty commuting to work, and delays in logistics. Reports of planned activity in the District’s service sector have been negative on net since the
previous report. Firms in mortgage, telephone answering, disinfecting and pest control, pharmaceutical
benefit management, and social security benefit management services reported plans to lay off workers or
reduce employee hours. In contrast, firms in health care, telecommunication, computer-system consulting,
legal, fitness and recreation, online shopping, and food distribution services reported new hiring and
expansion plans in the District.
Real Estate and Construction Home sales have continued to increase throughout most of the Eighth District on a year-over-year
basis. Compared with the same period in 2012, December 2013 year-to-date home sales were up 16
percent in Louisville, 17 percent in Little Rock, 7 percent in Memphis, and 4 percent in St. Louis.
December 2013 year-to-date single-family housing permits increased in the largest metro areas of the
District, compared with the same period in 2012. Permits increased 8 percent in Louisville, 12 percent in
Memphis, and 11 percent in St. Louis. In contrast, permits decreased 9 percent in Little Rock. Commercial and industrial real estate market conditions in the District have continued to
improve. A contact in northwest Kentucky reported that office leasing continued to struggle while the
demand for industrial space continued to improve. A contact in northeast Arkansas noted modest
improvement in commercial real estate. A contact in northwest St. Louis County reported that office
leasing in 2013 increased for the fourth consecutive year and expected a strong start in 2014. Commercial
and industrial construction improved throughout most of the District. A contact in Louisville noted
several on-going commercial construction projects in Hardin County, Kentucky, and in downtown
Louisville. Contacts in Memphis continued to report new commercial construction in Jonesboro and

 VIII-3
Paragould. A contact noted a new office building project in northwest St. Louis County and a new
industrial manufacturing plant in Wentzville, Missouri. A contact in Little Rock reported a plan for a
mixed-use project that includes commercial space and a plan for an outlet mall in Little Rock.
Banking and Finance A survey of District banks found little change in overall lending activity during the fourth quarter
of 2013. During this period, credit standards and creditworthiness of applicants for commercial and
industrial loans increased slightly, while demand improved moderately and delinquencies decreased
moderately. Credit standards and creditworthiness of applicants for prime residential mortgage loans
increased moderately. Demand was much weaker overall, with some respondents reporting substantial
weakness, and delinquencies decreased moderately. Credit standards and creditworthiness for auto loans
and credit cards remained mostly unchanged, while demand decreased moderately and delinquencies
edged down slightly. Credit standards, creditworthiness of applicants, demand, and delinquencies for
other consumer loans decreased.
Agriculture and Natural Resources Red meat production in the District for 2013 was 1.2 percent higher than in 2012. The production
increase was driven by the District’s largest producers in Illinois, Indiana, and Missouri. Coal production
in the District for January 2014 was 6.2 percent lower compared with January 2013.
Prices, Wages, and Employment A survey of Eighth District businesses indicated that wages grew at a moderate pace, while prices
and employment increased modestly over the past three months. Sixty-seven percent of contacts reported
that prices during the past three months remained about the same relative to the same period last year,
while 21 percent of contacts indicated that prices were somewhat higher. Fifty-seven percent of
respondents indicated that wages during the past three months have stayed about the same relative to a
year ago, while 33 percent noted somewhat higher wages. Finally, 72 percent of contacts reported that
employment levels have remained the same over the past three months, compared with a year ago, while
20 percent reported an increase and 11 percent reported a decrease.

 IX-1 NINTH DISTRICT--MINNEAPOLIS
The Ninth District economy experienced moderate growth since the last report. Increased
activity was noted in consumer spending, residential and commercial construction,
commercial real estate, professional services, manufacturing, and energy and mining.
Tourism was mixed, while residential real estate activity decreased and agricultural
conditions weakened for farmers. Labor markets tightened since the last report, and wage
increases were moderate. Prices generally remained level with a few exceptions noted.
Consumer Spending and Tourism
Retail sales activity increased moderately. A Minnesota-based restaurant and bar chain
reported that recent same-store sales were up 2 percent to 5 percent from a year ago. A
mall manager in Minnesota noted that apparel retailers reported an increase in resort wear
sales and that restaurants and bars were busy. Two furniture retailers were expanding
showroom space in North Dakota and Montana. A car dealership in Minnesota noted that
mechanics were working overtime to meet demand for repairs in large part due to cold,
wintry weather. A Montana auto dealer reported solid sales activity in January. Tourism was mixed, as extremely cold weather was balanced by strong snow
depth in several areas of the district. Cold weather slowed the number of visitors to the
Upper Peninsula of Michigan. A Minnesota ski resort reported that cold weather slowed
ski lift sales on a number of days. However, several ski resorts in Montana reported that
lift ticket sales and lodging were up over last year, as the region benefited from good
snow conditions. Looking ahead, Minneapolis’ convention and tourism bureau
anticipates that attendance at events in 2014 will be the largest in more than 10 years.
Construction and Real Estate
Commercial construction activity continued to grow since the last report. New hotels are
planned or under construction in several Minnesota markets. In the Minneapolis-St. Paul
area, a large retail mall and several industrial as well as mixed-use developments were
planned. The retail vacancy rate dropped 50 basis points in the fourth quarter from the
third quarter of 2013 in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area. However, the value of January
commercial permits in Sioux Falls, S.D., was down slightly from a year ago. Overall
residential construction activity increased. In the Minneapolis-St. Paul area, the value of
January residential permits grew by 28 percent from January 2013. The value of January
multifamily residential building permits in Billings, Mont., increased from January 2013,

 IX-2
but single-family decreased. The value of January residential building permits in Sioux
Falls decreased significantly from a year earlier. Activity in commercial real estate markets increased since the last report.
A recent report by a Minneapolis-St. Paul area real estate analytics firm noted that absorption
of space is solid and that investors expect more activity across all property types. Residential
real estate market activity decreased since the last report. In the Sioux Falls area, January
home sales were down 13 percent and inventory was down 4 percent, while the median sale
price increased 5 percent relative to a year earlier. In La Crosse, Wis., January home sales
and the median price decreased from January 2013. Meanwhile, January home sales were
down 13 percent from the same period a year ago in the Minneapolis area; the inventory of
homes for sale was down 11 percent, while the median sale price rose 12 percent.
Services
Activity at professional business services firms increased since the last report. A
February Minneapolis Fed ad hoc survey of lawyers, accountants, engineers, architects,
IT consultants and other professional business services firms noted optimism. Most
respondents expected more orders and increasing billable hours. A lawyer noted that
transactional activity was up and that clients’ business increased during the past two
years; the lawyer expected this to continue. Recent revenue was up at several Minnesota
advertising agencies compared with a year earlier.
Manufacturing
District manufacturing activity increased moderately since the last report. Purchasing
managers responding to a January survey by Creighton University (Omaha, Neb.)
reported that manufacturing activity increased in Minnesota and the Dakotas. A company
in the early stages of planning a $1.7 billion nitrogen fertilizer plant in North Dakota
exceeded its fundraising goals. South Dakota’s state government withdrew $13 million in
loan commitments for a shuttered Aberdeen beef slaughter plant that declared bankruptcy
and was sold last December.
Energy and Mining
Activity in the energy sector remained brisk. Mid-February oil and gas exploration in
Montana and North Dakota decreased slightly from recent months, primarily due to
extreme cold; however, production remains at record levels. Unexpected demand for
propane to dry corn at harvest time, along with severe cold, led to a surge in demand for
the fuel. A judge’s decision opened the doors for approval of a $250 million solar power

 IX-3
development in Minnesota. Overall mining activity was stable. District iron ore mines
were operating at near capacity. Meanwhile, fourth quarter 2013 palladium and platinum
production was up in Montana compared with the same period in 2012.
Agriculture
Conditions continued to soften for district farmers, while livestock and dairy producers
remained in better shape. More than half of respondents to the Minneapolis Fed’s fourth
quarter (January) Survey of Agricultural Credit Conditions said farm incomes decreased
in the last three months of 2013, and two-thirds expected incomes to fall in the first
quarter of this year. Cattle and hog producers continued to benefit from high prices and
falling feed costs, as did dairy producers, according to survey comments. Informal survey
results suggest that farmers are reacting to falling corn prices and intend to plant fewer
acres of corn and a potentially record high acreage of soybeans this coming spring.
January prices received by farmers fell from a year earlier for corn, wheat, soybeans,
hogs and chickens; prices increased for cattle, milk, eggs and turkeys.
Employment, Wages and Prices
Labor markets tightened slightly since the last report. A software company expansion in
North Dakota will result in 150 construction jobs, followed by increased employment of
up to 180 new workers over the next few years. A home improvement retailer announced
plans to hire about 1,000 workers in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area to fill spring positions.
A workforce center in western Minnesota noted strong demand for welders and health
care workers, such as certified nursing assistants. In contrast, a Minnesota-based retailer
announced plans to lay off 400 to 500 employees, while another Minnesota company will
lay off more than 180 employees in its legal publishing division. A printing plant in
Minnesota will close, laying off 170 workers. Overall wage increases were moderate. Wages remained at high levels in the oil-
drilling areas of North Dakota and Montana, but the pace of increase has moderated
recently. Prices were generally level with a few exceptions noted. Minnesota gasoline
prices remained level since the last report. Some metals prices were down slightly.
Meanwhile, District consumers of residential propane faced prices two to three times
higher than a year ago due to strong demand and supply constraints.

 X-1 TENTH DISTRICT – KANSAS CITY The Tenth District economy remained stable in January and February and was expected
to improve during the next few months. Consumer spending declined moderately as a decrease in
automobile, retail, and restaurant sales outweighed an increase in tourism activity.
Manufacturing activity expanded moderately, and expectations for future activity remained
positive. Construction and residential real estate activity decreased slightly, while commercial
real estate activity strengthened. Contacts anticipated stronger real estate and construction
activity in the coming months as the weather improves and demand remains strong. Bankers
continued to report steady overall loan demand, improved loan quality, and stable deposit levels.
Agricultural growing conditions for winter wheat deteriorated, while livestock and crop prices
edged higher. Energy activity remained strong, and capital expenditures were expected to
increase along with drilling activity. Prices increased slightly for both finished goods and raw
materials, with further gains expected in the next few months. Wages rose modestly in most
industries, and contacts continued to report difficulty finding workers for some skilled positions. Consumer Spending. Consumer spending declined moderately in January and February
but was expected to increase modestly in the coming months. Contacts noted a variety of reasons
for the recent slowdown including typical seasonal patterns, extreme winter weather, regulatory
and political uncertainty, and a softening in consumer confidence. Although retail sales fell over
the past month, sales remained slightly above year-ago levels. Automobile sales decreased
moderately in recent months and fell to levels that were well below one year ago. However,
automobile inventories continued to build, and contacts anticipated modest improvement in sales
over the next few months. Restaurant sales also dipped sharply in February, but were consistent
with year-ago levels and were expected to rise in the next few months. Tourism activity was
significantly stronger than one year ago, with hotel occupancy rates and room rates both higher.
Increased snowfall improved skiing conditions in the District and led to more ski-related tourism. Manufacturing and Other Business Activity. Manufacturing and transportation activity
increased moderately since the last survey period, while other business activity was unchanged.
Manufacturing activity picked up for both durable goods and nondurable goods, with production,
shipments and new orders expanding at a faster pace among durable goods manufacturers.
Overall, manufacturing activity and capital expenditures remained above year-ago levels, and

 X-2
expectations for the future were positive. Contacts in professional and high-tech services,
healthcare services, and wholesale trade reported roughly stable sales since the last survey period
and anticipated activity to pick up in the coming months. Transportation companies reported
stronger sales in February, and contacts were increasingly optimistic about future activity. Real Estate and Construction. Construction and residential real estate sales decreased
slightly, while commercial real estate activity strengthened from the previous survey period.
Residential sales declined slightly, while inventories remained low and fell further. Low- and
medium-priced homes continued to drive sales, while higher-priced home sales remained
sluggish in most of the District. Residential realtors reported additional home price gains, and
expected residential real estate activity to improve in the near-term as demand increases due to
seasonality. Builders reported that the number of starts was flat during the survey period, but
construction activity was expected to strengthen in the coming months, with prices and buyer
traffic both expected to increase. Mortgage activity fell slightly compared to the last survey
period and compared to a year ago, but was expected to increase in the coming months as a rise
in home purchase loans was anticipated to outweigh the decrease in refinancings. Commercial
real estate contacts reported a decline in vacancy rates, a slight increase in absorption, and higher
sales. Commercial real estate construction softened slightly but was still up over last year and
was expected to increase in the coming months. Banking. Bankers reported steady overall loan demand, improved loan quality, and
stable deposit levels in February. Most respondents reported steady demand for commercial and
industrial loans, commercial real estate loans, consumer installment loans, and agriculture loans.
Demand for residential real estate loans declined during the survey period. Bankers reported
improved loan quality compared to a year ago, and all bankers expected the outlook for loan
quality to either improve or remain the same over the next six months. Credit standards
remained unchanged in all major loan categories, and respondents reported stable deposits. Agriculture. Crop growing conditions deteriorated, while livestock prices strengthened
since the last survey period. Slightly more than half of the winter wheat crop was rated in fair to
poor condition as scattered snowfalls provided only marginal soil moisture. Crop prices edged up
from recent lows due to an uptick in export demand and concern that South American corn and
soybean production would be lower than previously expected. Feeder cattle prices rose further

 X-3
with historically low cow inventories, and strong export demand supported higher fed cattle
prices. Hog prices rose amid an intensifying swine virus outbreak that was expected to constrain
pork supplies. In addition, production costs for livestock feeders edged down due to lower feed
prices. Agricultural bankers indicated that farmland price appreciation moderated from the rapid
pace seen the past few years, and most expected values would level off in 2014. Energy. District energy activity remained solid in January and February and was
expected to remain steady in the coming months. Oil rigs increased slightly in the District,
particularly in Oklahoma and Colorado. Natural gas rigs edged down despite the surge in natural
gas spot prices and record-high withdrawals from storage. Although futures prices for March and
April natural gas contracts have risen recently, energy contacts expected natural gas prices to
decrease slightly in the coming weeks as storage is restocked. Crude oil prices were expected to
remain steady. Propane prices increased significantly for many consumers due to already low
propane stocks and unusually cold weather. Capital expenditures were projected to increase in
the coming months, particularly in drilling for oil and natural gas liquids. Wages and Prices. Prices of finished goods increased modestly, while raw material
prices rose moderately in January and February. Wages ticked up and were expected to continue
to move higher in the months ahead. Retail, automobile, restaurant and manufacturing contacts
noted price increases for both inputs and finished products. However, raw material prices were
reportedly rising at a faster pace. These contacts anticipated additional price increases in the
months ahead. Builders also reported an uptick in the price of construction materials, particularly
roofing. Wages rose modestly in most industries, with transportation and automobile contacts
reporting larger increases. Retail and restaurant respondents expected wages to increase at a
faster pace over the next six months after minimal gains in recent months. Contacts in the
professional and technical services, construction, and transportation industries expected the
largest wage gains in the coming months. Some contacts continued to report difficulty finding
skilled workers including technicians, engineers, construction trade laborers, and experienced
supervisors.

 XI-1 ELEVENTH DISTRICT—DALLAS Summary The Eleventh District Economy grew at a moderate pace over the past six weeks.
Manufacturing activity increased overall, although there were a few reports of slowing demand. Retail
and automobile sales were slightly weaker but contacts’ outlooks were positive. Demand improved in
most nonfinancial services industries with the exception of transportation services, which was negatively
impacted by severe national weather. Sales of new single-family homes remained on an upward trend,
and office and industrial real estate leasing activity remained strong. Loan demand held relatively steady.
Energy activity remained solid, while agricultural conditions worsened. Price increases were noted in
several industries, although most were modest. Outlooks were optimistic across most industries. Prices Most responding firms said prices were stable to up slightly over the reporting period.
There were a few instances of accelerating prices. Fabricated metals producers noted continued increases
in selling prices and expect more in the next six months. Food producers said that selling prices had
moved up due to rising input costs, especially for dairy and beef. One airline reported a modest increase
in ticket prices. Some transportation firms expected increases in shipping rates in coming months due to
higher fuel costs. Retail prices were stable overall and auto selling prices were unchanged. Natural gas prices rose marginally over the course of the last six weeks, peaking at $7.63 in early
February and ending the reporting period at $5.35. This was driven by the exceptionally cold winter,
which led to a drawdown of inventories to the bottom of its 5-year range. The price of WTI also rose over
the last six weeks, trading as high as $100.35 at the end of the period. This price behavior was driven in
part by heating oil demand, which has also been bolstered by the severe winter, and debottlenecking at
Cushing, OK. Labor Market Employment levels held steady or increased slightly at most responding firms.
Staffing firms said employment levels were up modestly and expected to hire additional workers.
Accounting and legal firms reported a modest increase in employment levels. One transportation services
firm expected to increase payrolls significantly this year while another one continued with an incentivized
buyout to reduce employment. Fabricated metals and food manufacturing firms reported increased hiring
due to stronger demand. A recreational vehicle producer noted employment was up moderately and
expected to continue hiring. Labor shortages were reported for engineers, truck drivers, mechanics,
machinists and construction workers. There were some reports of upward wage pressure. High-tech respondents noted moderate wage
pressure for high-skilled workers including electrical engineers. Primary metals contacts and food
producers noted slight increases in wage pressures for skilled and technical workers. Airlines reported
upward pressure on wages, and one airline had increased salaries modestly. In addition, a transportation

 XI-2
services firm noted wages were up slightly, and accounting contacts reported marginal wage pressure.
Single-family housing contacts continued to note rising wage pressures. Manufacturing Reports from manufacturers were mostly positive and outlooks were optimistic.
Construction–related manufacturers said that demand increased since the last report, despite bad weather
locally. Fabricated metals producers reported strong demand, a result of robust commercial and
residential construction. Contacts noted demand is well above last year’s levels. Demand for primary
metals softened seasonally since the last report, although most contacts said demand was somewhat better
than this time last year. Energy-related manufacturing contacts and food producers noted steady demand
at healthy levels. Paper manufacturers said demand was flat to up and running slightly ahead of
expectations. Demand for transportation equipment was mixed, in part due to bad weather in the region,
but it was still well above year-ago levels. Contacts in high-tech manufacturing reported a slight improvement in orders since the last survey
period. Responding firms said that demand for memory chips remained strong and demand for logic
devices remained weak but stable. Inventories were reported as stable and employment levels were flat to
slightly up. Most contacts expect stronger demand this year as they expect the world economy to pick up
moderately and replacement rates of high tech devices to increase. Refinery contacts noted that utilization rates fell slightly, in part due to weather effects. The
production growth of major chemicals was mixed. Refinery and petrochemical margins remained healthy. Retail Sales Retail sales were a little weaker this reporting period due in part to bad weather
nationally but year-over-year growth remained positive. According to three national retailers, demand in
Texas slightly outperformed the nation since the last report. Contacts’ outlooks for the rest of this quarter
and the remainder of the year are positive. Automobile sales softened slightly since the previous report. In north Texas, this was attributed to
cold weather. Year-over-year demand ranged from down slightly to up slightly. Inventory levels varied by
manufacturer, and generally were not a source of concern. Contacts’ outlooks for the remainder of the
quarter and the year were mostly optimistic. Nonfinancial Services Staffing firms said demand was up more than expected, and that they
plan to increase hiring. One contact noted requests for IT professionals started rising again after
maintaining an already high level over the past several months. Contacts were more optimistic than at the
time of the last report. Accounting firms said demand continued to trend upward, although there was
some softness in tax services. Outlooks were cautiously positive. Legal firms noted a slight increase in
demand over the past six weeks and it was up notably from last year. Transportation service firms noted
mixed demand. Railroad cargo volumes fell slightly below year-ago levels, with severe weather
nationally largely to blame. Coal, grain and nonmetallic minerals saw good growth, and chemicals and

 XI-3
petroleum shipments rose modestly. Weakness was seen in shipments of lumber and wood and motor
vehicles. The outlook remained positive with strong growth expected in the first part of 2014. Small
parcel shipping decelerated since the last report but was up from a year ago. Retail trade continued to be
the largest driver of growth, and the outlook was optimistic. Air cargo volumes were up since the last
report but down slightly from a year ago. Respondents in the maritime shipping industry said loaded
container volume declined slightly, but that for 2013 as a whole container volumes rose moderately. Airline demand was solid to slightly stronger according to contacts. Severe winter weather across
the nation caused some temporary disruptions, but demand rebounded quickly. Demand was in line with
or slightly above year ago levels. Outlooks were optimistic. Construction and Real Estate Single-family home sales remained on an upward trend over the
past six weeks, although one contact noted a slight slowdown in the pace of new home sales in recent
weeks. Inventories of new and existing homes remained at extremely low levels. One respondent noted
the low inventory of developed lots could hamper single-family building activity later in the year.
Apartment demand remained solid and construction activity continued at high levels. Rental rate growth
was above the historical average in most major metros. One contact was concerned about possible
overbuilding in urban areas. Office and industrial leasing activity was strong. Sales activity remained at high levels and
contacts expect it to increase this year, noting a more friendly lending environment. Outlooks were
positive and commercial development is expected to continue to rise this year. Financial Services Financial sector performance remained relatively level over the past six
weeks. Demand improved marginally for commercial real estate, middle-market, mergers and
acquisitions, and consumer loans. Some softness was reported in residential real estate lending. Loan
pricing remained relatively unchanged at competitive levels, and loan quality continued to strengthen.
Deposit volumes increased slightly on net after fluctuations in the beginning of the year; rates remain low
and static. Respondents’ outlooks are hopeful for a better year, noting less client uncertainty and
potentially growing interest in loans. Energy Eleventh District demand for oil field services remained healthy over the past six
weeks. Contacts noted that activity in Texas is particularly strong, both inland and offshore, and they
were moderately more optimistic for the first half of 2014 than in prior reporting periods. Agriculture After gradually easing throughout the fall, district drought conditions worsened
slightly in January and early February. Wheat crop and pasture conditions deteriorated somewhat due to
lack of sufficient rainfall. Cotton prices have rallied since December, which may lead more farmers to
favor cotton over other row crops when making planting decisions this spring.

 XII - 1 TWELFTH DISTRICT–SAN FRANCISCO
Summary Economic activity in the Twelfth District expanded at a moderate pace during the reporting
period of late December through mid-February. Price increases for most final goods and services were
minimal, and wage gains remained quite modest on net. The pace of retail sales stepped down, although
demand for business and consumer services rose. District manufacturing activity was mixed. Production
activity in agricultural and resource-related industries expanded on balance. Activity in residential and
commercial real estate markets continued to expand. Financial institutions reported that loan demand
increased overall.
Prices and Wages Contacts observed minimal price increases for most final goods and services. Fruit and produce
prices moved up, and many contacts expect food and water price inflation to pick up in the near term as a
consequence of the drought in California. Prices edged up for some construction-related inputs, including
wood, insulation, and cement. A higher supply of recycled metals in Asia resulted in lower exports of
such metals from the United States, which contributed to downward pressure on U.S. steel input costs and
on final prices for steel products. Wage gains remained quite modest on net, although contacts pointed to signs of building upward
wage pressures in areas with particularly strong regional economic activity. Wages for some worker
types, notably software developers and engineers, continued to increase rapidly. Reports suggested that
the rising cost of living in the San Francisco Bay Area may be pushing up wage pressures.
Retail Trade and Services The pace of retail sales stepped down. Traditional brick-and-mortar retailers faced fierce
competition from online vendors, but recent reports indicated that both in-store and online sales were soft.
Retail grocers observed increasing price sensitivity on the part of consumers and noted that even upscale
retail grocery establishments experienced pressure on margins. Despite the recognition of some weakness
in current conditions, most contacts expect consumer spending to improve or stay the same over the next

 XII - 2
12 months. In particular, contacts were optimistic in their outlook for spending on autos and home
furnishings. Demand for business and consumer services rose. Demand for cloud computing services
remained strong, although contacts noted that many small and medium-sized businesses have continued to
invest in their own data centers. Contacts noted that activity in the food service industry continued to
improve. Providers of health-care services expect increased demand for services as a result of expanded
coverage under the Affordable Care Act. The level of Hawaiian travel and tourism activity in 2013
surpassed past-year records despite a slowdown in the fourth quarter. Contacts also indicated that tourism
picked up in Southern California, with occupancy rates in San Diego hotels reaching historic highs.
Overall tourism conditions in Las Vegas improved slightly.
Manufacturing District manufacturing activity was mixed during the reporting period of late December through
mid-February. Contacts noted that year-over-year growth in the electronic components industry resumed
after several quarters of decline. Semiconductor sales hit record levels in 2013 and are expected to grow
modestly in 2014. The sustained backlog of orders for commercial aircraft supported growth in the
commercial aerospace industry, although contacts expect the pace of new orders to slow this year.
Defense-related manufacturers reported sluggish overall conditions, and they expect sales, new orders,
and capacity utilization to trend downward. Wood and steel product manufacturers noted that extreme
weather conditions across the country created problems along their supply chains. Demand for steel used
in private nonresidential construction projects continued to improve slowly, although contacts reported
low capacity utilization rates at steel mills.
Agriculture and Resource-related Industries Production in agricultural and resource-related industries expanded on balance. Demand was
stable for most crop and livestock products. Concerns about water costs and availability may cause
farmers in the California Central Valley to scale back planting. Contacts expect growers to allocate water
to more permanent plantings, such as almond and walnut orchards, before allocating water to annual

 XII - 3
crops, such as corn. In addition, dairy and meat producers may face higher feed costs due to water
shortages. Year-over-year crude oil production increased robustly, although consumer demand for
petroleum and gasoline rose more modestly. Demand for electricity and gas by industrial customers grew
further.
Real Estate and Construction Activity in residential and commercial real estate markets continued to expand. Home prices
across most of the District climbed further, albeit at a bit slower pace, and contacts indicated that the pace
of home sales was below historical averages in many areas. Contacts noted that while mortgage
application volume in Idaho increased, completed sales transactions dropped. Most contacts expect
homebuilding activity to strengthen this year. Occupancy rates for commercial real estate trended up in
some areas, and increasing permit activity and sales of empty lots suggest that commercial construction
may pick up further. In other areas, contacts noted that existing available square footage, especially in
retail-oriented properties, has stifled new construction. Public infrastructure projects, as well as a large
number of high-rise commercial construction projects, have been announced or are under way in
Honolulu, Seattle, Los Angeles, and the San Francisco Bay Area.
Financial Institutions Financial institutions reported that loan demand increased overall. Lending grew robustly in
selected areas, and contacts noted that asset quality improved at most banks. Contacts noted that credit
remains cheap and available for large firms but less accessible by smaller businesses. Ample liquidity in
the marketplace continued to perpetuate substantial competition among lenders for business from high-
quality commercial borrowers. Contacts indicated that some financial institutions relaxed underwriting
standards in an effort to win new business or maintain existing business relationships. In the District’s
Internet and digital media sectors, there were several notable mergers and acquisitions during the
reporting period, and the pace of initial public offerings picked up slightly. Private equity activity was
mostly stable, and venture capital financing was strong. The volume of venture capital deals in the
second half of 2013 reached mid-2007 levels, and the value of deals surged in the fourth quarter of 2013.

