 For use at 2:00 p.m., E.D.T. Wednesday October 24, 2001
Summary of Commentary on Current Economic Conditions by Federal Reserve District October 2001

SUMMARY OF COMMENTARY ON CURRENT ECONOMIC CONDITIONS BY FEDERAL RESERVE DISTRICT OCTOBER 2001

 TABLE OF CONTENTS
SUMMARY............................................................................ i
First District - Boston............................................................ I-1
Second District - New York........................................................ II-1
Third District - Philadelphia.....................................................III-1
Fourth District - Cleveland....................................................... IV-1
Fifth District - Richmond.......................................................... V-1
Sixth District - Atlanta.......................................................... VI-1
Seventh District - Chicago....................................................... VII-1
Eighth District - St. Louis..................................................... VIII-1
Ninth District - Minneapolis...................................................... IX-1
Tenth District - Kansas City....................................................... X-1
Eleventh District - Dallas........................................................ XI-1
Twelfth District - San Francisco................................................. XII-1

 Summary* Reports from all Federal Reserve Districts indicate weak economic activity in
September and the first weeks of October. In all Districts, the tragedy of September 11
was followed by a short period of sharply reduced activity. Business activity recovered
quickly from some aspects of the shock, such as reduced air cargo capacity, but longer-
run effects are more difficult to assess. Retail sales, other than autos, were slightly lower
than before September 11, but this weakness might have already been in train. The same
is true for manufacturing. Insurance premiums have increased, and security precautions
are disrupting productivity. Retail sales softened in September and early October in almost all Districts. Auto
sales fell at the beginning of the period but have now rebounded following new zero-
financing incentive plans. Both shipments and orders for a broad spectrum of
manufactured goods, ranging from steel to semiconductors, are weak in most of the
country. Construction generally slowed during the period. The softness in consumer
spending, manufacturing, and construction is affecting the labor market, where layoffs and
plant closings have been reported in many industries, from financial services on the East
Coast to media and advertising on the West Coast to auto parts in the central states. There
has been little upward pressure on either wages or prices, and, in some cases, they have
actually fallen.
The Effect of September 11 Retail sales followed much the same pattern throughout the country. In the week
following the attack, consumer spending dropped sharply for all items except those that
were likely purchased in preparation for possible additional attacks. Sales of groceries, security devices, and bottled water increased; purchases of insurance also rose. One to
two weeks later, consumer buying picked up somewhat, although in most Districts it was
weaker than in early September. Contacts in the Chicago District note that the weakness
*Prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland and based on information collected before
October 15, 2001. This document summarizes comments received from businesses and other
contacts outside the Federal Reserve and is not a representation of the views of Federal Reserve
officials.

is the result of fundamental economic causes prevailing before the attack, higher
unemployment, and falling stock prices, rather than the attack itself. The grounding of aircraft caused some very short-run effects. For example, the
transport of fresh vegetables from the West Coast to the East Coast was disrupted
somewhat. The supply chain of parts to manufacturers also was interrupted but appeared
to recover quickly from dislocations in air transportation, as air cargo was promptly
rerouted through ground networks. All Districts except Boston and Kansas City report sharp declines in the hotel,
airline, and tourism industries. In many Districts, demand dropped sharply immediately
following the attack but later rebounded partially. Some cancelled conventions have been
rescheduled. In Manhattan, Broadway theaters have noted some pickup in attendance
after a sharp dropoff in mid-September. However, large layoffs in the airline industry may
be the result of previously observed weakness in the industry, which was then amplified by
the attack. Manhattan lost roughly 7 percent of its office space in the September 11
attack, but an estimated four percent will be repaired in upcoming months. Despite the
damage, however, office availability increased slightly on balance in September. The attack is likely to have a longer-term effect on manufacturing. Aircraft orders
are down sharply, causing layoffs in the aircraft and aircraft parts industries in the Boston,
Kansas City, and San Francisco regions. There has been an increase in demand for security
products and data storage devices produced in the Cleveland and San Francisco Districts.
Boston reports a large rise in insurance demand, while Atlanta, Dallas, and San Francisco
report an increase in insurance premiums. The Atlanta and Chicago Districts report a fall
in business productivity due to increased security precautions.
Consumer Spending Retail sales softened in September and early October in all Districts except
St. Louis, where sales were flat, and Minneapolis, where sales were considered normal,
and Richmond, where sales returned to pre-attack levels. In the New York District,
recent sales were well below levels of a year ago. Almost all regions reported that
discount chains were doing much better than specialty stores, and luxury items did poorly.
The softer sales tempered the retail sector's forecasts for the holiday season. Most

Districts report sales expectations that are both more uncertain and lower than they had
been in August. Automobile sales were much weaker during the first weeks of September, but all
Districts, except Boston and New York, report a rebound in sales because of zero-percent
financing options that are being offered. In most cases, sales were back to normal, except
in the San Francisco and Atlanta Districts, where they were weaker than normal. Atlanta
and Chicago also mention that sales of trucks were down.
Manufacturing Industrial activity was generally weak throughout the country in September and
early October. The only exceptions were New York, which reports some pickup in
activity, and Richmond, which reports steady activity. Most Districts mention that
shipments and orders are weaker than the year before, and, indeed, than in early
September. The continued weakness in manufacturing has contributed to pessimism about
when orders will improve, as many Districts report that they do not expect a turnaround
until 2002. The weakness is broadly based. The industries affected by lower shipments and
orders include high-tech industries, such as semiconductors in the Boston, Dallas, and San
Francisco regions, as well as the more traditional heavy industries such as steel in the
Chicago and Cleveland regions. In spite of robust auto sales, the auto parts industries in
the Boston, Cleveland, Dallas, and St. Louis Districts all reported difficult times. The
resource-based industries such as lumber reported mill closures in the regions of Atlanta,
Dallas, and San Francisco. A few industries are doing well. Cement in the Dallas region,
some textiles in the Richmond region, and luxury goods in Cleveland report some gains.
Real Estate and Construction Construction generally slowed during September and early October, although there
were exceptions in some locations and in some types of construction. Commercial
construction weakened in the Atlanta, Boston, Cleveland, Kansas City, and San Francisco
regions and in the western Kentucky portion of the St. Louis region. Some commercial
and industrial projects were put on hold in the Chicago, Dallas, Minneapolis, Richmond,
and San Francisco Districts. Office builders were less active than in the past in the

Atlanta, Cleveland, and Richmond regions, as well as in the city of St. Louis. Commercial
vacancies rose in the Atlanta, Chicago, Kansas City, and San Francisco Districts. New
York, in spite of the attack, still experienced a slight up-tick in vacancies. Office building
held steady in the Cleveland District. Residential construction rose only in Philadelphia and some areas of the St. Louis
region. It held steady in the Cleveland and Minneapolis Districts and fell in the Atlanta,
Boston, Chicago, Dallas, Kansas City, New York, Richmond, San Francisco Districts, and
some portions of the St. Louis region. In Boston, the decline followed a strong summer, so that on a year-over-year basis, construction activity was still up. In the Richmond and
New York regions, the decline was seen in the construction of luxury homes. New York
also reports a decline in rents in Manhattan.
Agriculture and Natural Resources Most of the year's crops have now been harvested. Corn and soybean harvests
were good in the Richmond, St. Louis, and southern part of the Cleveland regions, but
were below normal in the Chicago, Kansas City, and northern part of the Cleveland
regions. Prices for cattle and hogs are low. Kansas City reports that the winter wheat
crop is in the ground ahead of schedule. Atlanta reports a poor cotton harvest.
Minneapolis and Dallas report weather-related poor crop yields, but San Francisco notes
that West Coast harvests have generally been good. Decreases in oil and natural gas prices have led to a decline of drilling activity in
the Dallas and Kansas City Districts. Decreases in steel production have caused several
iron ore mines to close in the Minneapolis District.
Financial Services and Credit Banks experienced greater mortgage refinancing activity in response to lower
interest rates across Districts. New mortgage lending was also reported to have increased
in all but four districts: Kansas City and San Francisco, where loan activity generally
decreased in most categories, and Boston and Dallas. Atlanta, Cleveland, New York,
Philadelphia, and St. Louis report consumer loans were down. Cleveland, Philadelphia,
and St. Louis report increases in commercial lending, and Chicago, New York, Richmond,
and St. Louis report decreases in these loans.

 The Chicago, Cleveland, New York, and San Francisco Districts report that loan
delinquencies were up, and credit standards were reportedly higher in the Atlanta, Kansas
City, and New York Districts. Nonperforming loans were higher in the Philadelphia and
St. Louis Districts.
Employment Many Districts report layoffs in a wide variety of jobs. Large manufacturing
layoffs are reported in the Boston, Dallas, Kansas City, Chicago, Philadelphia, San
Francisco, and St. Louis regions. In the service sector, hotel, tourism, and airline
industries laid off people throughout the country. In addition, the Dallas, Richmond, and
Philadelphia Districts saw cutbacks in the retail sector, and New York reports layoffs in
the financial services industry. The West Coast's media and advertising industry also
experienced large layoffs.
Wages and Prices Most Districts report little or no change in wages. Manufacturers were reducing
salaries in the Boston District, and wages were down in parts of the San Francisco
District. Steady wages or no wage pressure are reported in the Chicago, Kansas City,
New York, and Richmond regions, as well as among temporary workers in the
Minneapolis region. The Atlanta, Cleveland, and Dallas Districts report that wage
pressures had subsided or were subdued. Dallas and San Francisco also report an increase
in health care costs. Most Districts report steady or declining consumer prices. Districts reporting
steady retail prices included Kansas City and Richmond. San Francisco reports steady
prices except for declining prices in apparel. Districts reporting lower retail prices included
Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, and Dallas. The prices for manufactured goods also fell in the
Chicago, Dallas, and New York regions, while they were steady in the Atlanta, Kansas
City, Richmond, and San Francisco regions. Input prices are reported as decreasing or holding steady, except in Cleveland,
where they were mixed. Districts reporting price declines included Boston, Chicago,
Dallas, Minneapolis, and New York. Those reporting steady prices were Atlanta, Kansas
City, and San Francisco.

 I-1 FIRST DISTRICT - BOSTON First District manufacturing and retail firms report that business activity is generally below year-
earlier levels, notwithstanding some recovery at the end of September and early October from the severe
slowdown that followed the terrorist attacks on September 11. Many of these contacts are anticipating, if
not currently planning, employment reductions. By contrast, business at insurance companies and in New
England residential real estate markets has been steadier. Most respondents express uncertainty about the
outlook; few expect improvement before the second half of next year.
Retail Most retail contacts report very large sales declines in September. During the weeks of
September 10 and September 17, sales were off 20 to 30 percent from the same period last year.
However, by the end of September, sales were said to have generally reverted to the patterns that
prevailed before the terrorist attacks on September 11-even with or slightly below year-earlier levels.
By contrast with generally sluggish consumer demand, sectors related to the housing construction market
(building materials, hardware) report modest to strong growth in sales. Most retailers report they are holding employment levels steady. However, some say they are
shrinking employment through attrition; others indicate that decisions on future layoffs depend on fourth-
quarter sales results. Retailers hiring replacement help report that they are able to upgrade labor quality.
Prices are being discounted to move inventories, with the result that profit margins are declining. Before September 11, the mood of retail respondents was cautious; the terrorist attacks have
shifted their outlook to complete uncertainty. When pressed, most contacts are pessimistic about the
fourth quarter of 2001 and unsure of what to expect in 2002. They express hope that an economic
rebound will occur sometime during the second half of 2002 or early in 2003.
Manufacturing and Related Services Some First District manufacturing contacts report that business has recovered somewhat from
what they experienced immediately following the September 11 terrorist attacks. However, almost all

 I-2
respondents say that sales or orders are weaker than in the period prior to September 11 and remain below
year-ago levels. Contacts offer varying views on the length and depth of the downturn, but as a group they
express heightened caution about 2002-especially the first half. Manufacturers of aircraft parts and equipment say their customers are issuing stop work orders
and cancellations. The ongoing weakness in air travel is leading to a grounding of older and commuter
aircraft, which will cause further curtailments of production. Contacts say that the anticipated defense
buildup is unlikely to result in new business this year, and they are tentative about increases next year. Makers of capital goods other than aircraft consistently describe business as weak, and some
indicate they will report losses for the third quarter. Exporters express concern about deterioration in
foreign markets. One contact supplying equipment and parts to the semiconductor industry is encouraged
that orders did not fall further in the third quarter, but he does not anticipate a turnaround in sales until the
second half of 2002. In the area of consumer products, auto parts manufacturers say orders are down
from a year ago but holding steady. One firm is seeing a reduction in sales of products connected with
travel and tourism. A furniture maker is cutting production sharply because of slumping sales. Contacts report downward pressures on selling prices as their business customers seek to
negotiate more favorable terms. Pressures from automakers remain intense; one contact said that, in
essence, suppliers are being asked to fund car-buying incentive programs and other auto company
expenses. Believing the economy is in recession, manufacturers are taking new steps to reduce labor and
capital costs. Most are planning or at least anticipating reductions in employment. Some are reducing
salaries, furloughing employees, or cutting benefits. Capital budgets have become very tight at most
firms. Respondents frequently say that their company is eliminating any purchases not needed
immediately or undertaking only those projects with a very short and certain payback.
Residential Real Estate Although contacts report slowdowns in residential real estate markets throughout the region,

 I-3
many say the markets are stronger than they expected. These slowdowns follow a strong summer. For
example, Massachusetts contacts report increases in sales of single-family homes of 12 and 17 percent
from year-earlier in July and August. Activity remains robust in most areas, although the number of
listings has increased during the past quarter and, on average, listings stay on the market longer. Some
contacts consider recent slowdowns as temporary effects of the September attacks and anticipate that low
interest rates, moderate prices, and increased inventory will soon attract prospective buyers. Prices
continue to appreciate, although at a slower rate. Contacts emphasize that there is typically a 90- to 120-
day lag between the time an offer is made and when a home sale takes place. It is therefore too soon to
see the effects of September events in sales data.
Insurance Most contacts in the insurance industry report that third-quarter sales and revenue were as
expected. Contacts in both property-casualty and life insurance are expecting increased sales in the near th attacks. One life insurance provider believes that people
term as a result of the September 1 1 terrorist
have become more aware of their families' long-term financial needs; this awareness will soon result in
more policies. Contacts in property and casualty insurance have been able to raise prices on their
products after a period of "suicidal" price competition. These contacts had earlier been trying to
implement price increases but the terrorist attacks allowed them to increase pricing faster without much
loss in retention. One respondent believes that customers are now focusing more on quality than on
pricing. Contacts also mentioned other industry changes resulting from the terrorist attacks such as
separate terrorism and war clauses for policies (at additional cost) and closer scrutiny of the solvency of
re-insurance providers. Most contacts report steady employment levels as they focus on keeping costs
flat; they indicate they have seen a marked improvement in the quality of available labor for those few
positions they need to refill. Contacts say they are hesitant about starting any new capital and technology
initiatives.

 II-1 SECOND DISTRICT--NEW YORK Economic conditions in the Second District have weakened since the last report. It is unclear
how much of the weakening may be attributed to the material disruptions and aftermath of the
September 11 terrorist attack. The disaster's impact was particularly evident in Manhattan real estate,
retail trade and tourism. Many businesses in the District are facing downward price pressures from
weakening demand and lower commodity prices. Labor markets have shown signs of deteriorating since
the last report. Department stores report that sales fell well below plan during the week of the attack,
though they have recovered modestly in each of the past few weeks. Home sales in and around New York City have slowed drastically since the last report, and both
apartment prices and rents have fallen by an estimated 10 percent. In general, contacts note that the high
end of the market has been the most affected. Contrary to initial post-attack expectations, Manhattan's
office market has not tightened-availability rates at the end of September were slightly higher than a
month earlier. Hotels, taxi drivers, and Broadway theaters experienced a steep falloff in business in mid-
September, but activity has reportedly recovered somewhat in the weeks since. Finally, bankers again
report weaker loan demand, tighter credit standards, and moderately higher delinquency rates in the
latest survey, taken in early October.
Consumer Spending General merchandise retailers report that sales were well below plan in September and early
October, though discount and home improvement chains describe sales as close to plan. Department
store sales in the region fell sharply during the week of September 11-particularly at Manhattan
stores-but have recovered steadily in subsequent weeks. Still, as of early October, sales remained
lower than a year ago and well below plan. For the month as a whole, sales at Manhattan stores were
said to be 20-30 percent below normal, while comparable-store declines in the rest of the region ranged
from 4 to 13 percent. Broad-based weakness was reported across major merchandise categories,

 II-2
although some contacts note relative strength in furniture and lawn and garden supplies. Most contacts
report an overhang of inventories and are responding with steep markdowns. Most major chains have
scaled down Christmas-season sales expectations, to varying degrees. On average, dollar sales volume
is expected to be down 1-2 percent from last year. Discount chains, which have a very limited presence in New York City, report that sales in the
region were only modestly below plan, boosted by home entertainment merchandise (DVDs, etc.) and
security-related merchandise (alarms, etc). One contact notes some shift in business from weekends to
weekdays and says that consumers have grown increasingly budget-conscious in recent weeks. Major retail chains report that some stores closed for most of the day on September 11 but that
all re-opened on the following day. Scattered delivery and shipping delays were reported-mostly at
border crossings-but no major problems were reported. A large number of retail outlets in the World
Trade Center complex were destroyed, and virtually all major stores in Lower Manhattan were closed
for at least a week-a major department store and a leading electronics store remain closed indefinitely.
Construction and Real Estate Manhattan's office market was thrown into turmoil by the destruction of the World Trade Center
(3 percent of Manhattan space), as well as damage to adjacent structures (another 4 percent), most of
which should be habitable within 2 to 9 months. However, market conditions have not tightened as
expected-availability rates at the end of September were slightly higher than a month earlier. Leasing
activity has picked up dramatically, as displaced firms secure new space-mostly in Manhattan, but also
in northern New Jersey and, to a lesser extent, in the outer boroughs and eastern and northern suburbs. Still, many of the displaced firms have diminished space needs. Moreover, on the supply side, firms
outside the damaged area placed excess space on the market. The net result was the slight increase in
Manhattan's availability rate. By early 2002, as most of the damaged properties re-open, availability
rates are expected to rise even further.

 II-3 Housing markets in and around New York City have clearly weakened further since the last
report. A leading Manhattan rental real estate firm reports that the market has slowed significantly in
recent months but notes that it is difficult to assess the impact of the terrorist attack versus cyclical
forces. After accounting for increased concessions-such as a free month-Manhattan rents (north of
Canal Street) appear to be averaging about 10 percent lower than a year ago. In Lower Manhattan,
demand has fallen off sharply, and it is difficult to assess current market rents. Similarly, contacts in the apartment appraisal and brokerage industries note that co-op and condo
transactions ground to a halt during the week of the attack and have edged up only moderately in recent
weeks, while prices have fallen by roughly 10 percent. Even prices stipulated in a number of signed
contracts have been renegotiated. As in the rental market, Lower Manhattan is said to be particularly
sluggish, but market conditions appear to be holding up relatively well uptown, with a few reports of
multiple offers on apartments. Homebuilders in northern New Jersey report some softening at the high end of the market.
Some buyers are said to have shelved deals on construction not yet begun (pre-contract). However, one
contact still notes that there remains a shortage of housing, and people that need to move are still buying,
though typically with fewer amenities. Separately, a realtor in northern New Jersey reports that there
were virtually no sales transacted in the three weeks following the attack, and that it is difficult to gauge
price trends.
Other Business Activity A major New York City employment agency says that the local job market has slackened
noticeably since the last report, with particular weakness in financial services; however, demand from
law firms remains strong. Wages are said to have leveled off and are little changed from a year ago. Tourism-related industries experienced a steep drop-off in activity in September, though there
has been some improvement in early October. Manhattan hotels report that occupancy rates, which had

 II-4
already been slumping for most of this year, fell 25 percent below normal in September, and many hotels
have slashed room rates. New York City taxi drivers have reportedly experienced a steep drop-off in
business; income was reported to have fallen by as much as 50 percent in the weeks following the
terrorist attack. Broadway theaters report some rebound in attendance in October, following a dramatic
falloff in mid to late September. On a more positive note, there are some signs of stabilization in the region's manufacturing
sector. New York State manufacturers report some pickup in general business conditions and new
orders in September and early October, but express increased pessimism about the six-month outlook-
largely reflecting concern about the residual effects of the terrorist attack. Manufacturers continue to
report downward price pressures, though to a lesser extent than in the last report.
Financial Developments According to the latest survey of small to medium-sized Second District banks-conducted in
early October-demand for most types of loans fell noticeably over the past two months, except in the
residential mortgage category, where demand picked up moderately. Widespread increases were also
reported in refinancing activity. On the supply side, banks again tightened credit standards for all types
of loans except home mortgages, where standards remained stable. Virtually all respondents reported
declines in both loan rates and deposit rates. Delinquency rates rose for consumer, residential mortgage and commercial loans, but were little changed for commercial mortgages.

 III-1 THIRD DISTRICT - PHILADELPHIA Business activity in the region slowed in mid-September following the attacks in
New York and Washington and picked up slowly late in the month and in early October.
Manufacturers reported declines in shipments and orders in October compared with
September. Retail sales have moved up after being extremely slow in mid-September,
but they have been just level compared with a year ago. Auto sales also moved up, but
remain below last year's pace. Bank loan volumes rose slightly in September, with gains
in business and residential real estate loans, but consumer credit has been flat. Travel and
tourism activity remains weak, although it has improved since mid-September. Looking ahead, businesses in the District have mixed views, and all indicate that
they face greater uncertainty than usual. Manufacturers forecast increases in orders and
shipments during the next six months. Retailers, however, expect sales in the remaining
months of the year to be even with or to fall below last year's results. Auto dealers also
anticipate a slowdown in sales. Commercial bank credit officers expect continued slow
growth in commercial and industrial lending, but they are uncertain what course
consumer lending will take. They expect residential real estate lending to ease.
MANUFACTURING Third District manufacturers reported continuing declines in activity in October.
Orders and shipments were down compared with September in nearly all the major
manufacturing sectors in the region, although some firms producing chemicals and plastic
products reported increases in orders. Half of the manufacturing firms contacted for this
report indicated that orders for their products fell following the September terrorist
attacks, around one-third reported no changes in order flows after the attacks, and just
over one in 10 said their orders increased. In general, the region's manufacturers reduced
employment and working hours in October compared with September, and they
continued to trim inventories. Local manufacturers' forecasts have been virtually unchanged, although several
firms noted that some of their usual customers have reduced or postponed orders, and
they are uncertain when regular buying will resume. Nevertheless, more than half of the

 III-2
firms surveyed in early October forecast increases in orders and shipments during the
next six months. They expect business to improve gradually, with momentum building
through next year. Capital spending plans at area firms call for slight increases, on
balance, during the next six months.
RETAIL Third District retailers reported improved sales in the past few weeks, but most
indicated that the recent sales pace remains below the rate prior to the September terrorist
attacks. Overall, general merchandise sales in the region in early October were flat
compared with the same period a year ago. Discount stores were achieving some gains,
but sales at department and specialty stores were down. Sales of luxury goods were off
more than sales of basic goods. Some merchants reported increased sales of home
furnishings, but appliance and furniture sales in general were not strong. Apparel sales
appeared to be weaker than many retailers had expected. Stores have been expanding
price reductions in an effort to boost sales, but many merchants feel consumer confidence
is too fragile to support a solid gain in sales regardless of markdowns. Local store executives have reduced their forecasts for the year-end shopping
season, leading some to predict a year-over-year decline. Although most retailers
indicated that their current inventory levels were not high, some stores have cancelled
orders or resold on-order goods to other stores. As revenues continue to track below
plan, stores have laid off workers. Overall sales of cars and light trucks picked up in the region in late September
and early October, but remain well below year-ago levels. Manufacturers' incentives
have boosted customer traffic, but sales have not risen commensurately, and inventories
have been rising. Dealers expect some reduction in the sales rate as the year closes, and
they have cut back orders to manufacturers.
FINANCE Lending at major Third District banks rose slightly in October. There were small
gains in business loans and residential real estate loans. Residential real estate lending
increased for both refinancings and purchase mortgages. Credit card lending has slipped,

 III-3
as has consumer installment lending generally. Banks have experienced some increases
in nonperforming loans, on balance, but most of the bankers contacted for this report said
the increases have been slight. Commercial bankers in the Third District expect business lending to remain on a
positive trend, although they anticipate only slight gains. Several banks indicated they
were restricting lending in sectors where activity has weakened, such as travel related
businesses, commercial printing, and retailing. Bankers in the region do not expect
lending for home purchases or residential real estate development to continue at the
current pace, but they see no signs yet that a sharp drop is imminent. Bankers expect
consumer lending to track retail sales, but they say the outlook for consumption spending
in the region is uncertain. Banks in the Third District reported that their net interest margins have become
very tight as market interest rates have eased. Several indicated that they cannot reduce
deposit rates further without risk of losing balances. Bankers said the need to maintain
deposit rates limits their ability to reduce lending rates.
TRANSPORTATION AND TRAVEL Travel and tourism activity in the Third District has increased slightly in the past
few weeks, but remains below the year-ago level as well as below the level prior to the
terrorist attacks. Lodging and air transport companies have laid off workers in the region.
Port activity has increased slightly as both freighters and cruise ships have been diverted
from New York. This source of business is expected to last through the winter, but firms
involved in port activity say their overall business is not likely to rise if the U.S. and
foreign economies slow down.

 IV-1 FOURTH DISTRICT - CLEVELAND
General Business Conditions The general downward drift of the Fourth District economy continued in late August and
September. Most industries experienced a temporary negative shock following the terrorist
attacks of September 11, but production cuts in several industries will likely be more persistent,
namely, manufacturing, retail, and travel and tourism. Most contacts in these industries revised
their profit expectations downward for the year, and there seems to be little optimism that
business activity in these areas will recover in the near future. Conditions in the District's labor market were mixed. A number of labor unions reported
some improvement in compensation, but job security is a serious concern for most union
members. In general, wage growth remains subdued, but several contacts noted accelerating
benefits, especially for health care. Temporary workers are in high demand in the southern part
of the District, while conditions in the northern part are reportedly less favorable. Since
September 11, large layoffs have been announced in the airline, aerospace, hotel, and restaurant
industries. Some manufacturing contacts warned that more substantial layoffs may be necessary
if unfavorable economic conditions persist past the end of the year.
Manufacturing Contraction in the manufacturing sector continues, but conditions vary widely by type of
manufacturer. Suppliers to automakers reported significant drop-offs in new orders and
production, as did steel makers, aerospace equipment producers, and printing and publishing
firms. Manufacturers of niche products related to safety and security noted that business has
increased substantially since September 11. Some producers of luxury goods, such as boats,
reported that business remains surprisingly strong in the wake the attacks. Most manufacturing
contacts have sharply revised their fourth quarter sales estimates downward since September 11,
and some are marking down 2002 sales projections as well.
Retail Sales Contacts reported that retail sales for the first ten days of September were sluggish.
Retailers do not expect to recover the losses associated with the drastic drop-off in sales that

 IV-2
occurred after September 11, but most contacts indicated that sales returned to pre-attack levels
very quickly-some as soon as the following weekend, and most within two weeks. High-end
and apparel retailers appear to be an exception; sellers of these goods reported depressed sales.
Discount retailers reported steadily increasing sales since September 11 and expect September
sales to be stronger than August sales. Few retailers are optimistic about prospects for the
holiday season and many expect fourth-quarter sales to be well below last year. Most contacts
have revised their annual sales estimates downward an additional 2 percent since September 11. Auto sales in the District declined considerably the week after September 11, but
September's auto sales were still close to pre-attack expectations because sales rebounded during
the last half of the month. Dealers reported that showroom traffic is now higher than it was in
August. Aggressive incentive packages by manufacturers, including zero-percent financing and
cash-back bonuses, have contributed significantly to the recent pickup in sales.
Construction Residential building activity declined significantly the week after September 11, but since
the third week of September it has returned to levels described by District homebuilders as
normal. Builders are cautiously optimistic about their prospects for the remainder of the year. Commercial construction activity has declined a bit since the last report, although
perhaps more so in the weeks following September 11 as conditions in both the office and retail
segments of commercial construction have worsened, but the industrial and warehouse segments
have held steady. Some contacts reported that their customers appear to be more cautious since
the attacks, but others noted that the favorable interest rate environment has spurred some
interest among potential customers.
Trucking and Shipping Air freight volumes have steadily picked up since September 11 and are now near the
levels seen prior to the attacks. Trucking and shipping tonnage changed little after September 11, compared to August and the first week of September. Year-over-year shipments are down
significantly, and contacts reported that they have not seen the seasonal September increase in
retail and consumer goods shipping. Input cost pressures are mixed: diesel prices have continued to drop over the past several
weeks, and some carriers have eased their energy-associated surcharges. Insurance costs, on the

 IV-3
other hand, have seen a substantial increase in the District, with some contacts reporting that
premiums for umbrella coverage have tripled since they last renewed their contract. Security
costs for air freight have also increased considerably, and most carriers are passing these
increased costs on to their customers through surcharges.
Banking Fourth District banks reported mixed developments stemming from the recent rate cuts.
The net interest margin improved for most banks, but a couple reported tightening in the margin.
Half of our contacts reported a drop in demand for commercial loans, while the other half
reported no change in commercial loan activity. Consumer loan activity has been mixed:
mortgage lending for both purchasing and refinancing has been strong, while consumer credit
has weakened. Most banks reported a slight increase in the rate of loan delinquencies, and
almost all contacts reported some decrease in credit quality. Loan applications have remained
steady since the last report.
Travel and Tourism Contacts noted that since the attacks, meeting planners have changed their criteria when selecting locations for large events: they now favor cities that are easily accessible by ground
travel over cities with large airports. Cities with larger airports reported a higher percentage of
cancellations of planned conventions and conferences than those without. For the most part,
events are being postponed rather than cancelled, but attendance at these rescheduled events has
been and is expected to remain significantly lower than originally planned. Local government administrators are warning that decreased tourism may cause shortfalls in their budgets.
Agriculture As expected, farmers in the northern part of the District have been able to harvest only 80-90 percent of their annual average yields in both corn and soybeans. Farmers in the southern part of the District reported that their corn and soybean harvests should be above 5-year annual average yields. Livestock farmers across the District reported that business is strong, and
prices for beef remain significantly higher than last year.

 FIFTH DISTRICT-RICHMOND Overview: Fifth District economic activity contracted slightly in September and early October,
as consumers pulled back in the wake of terrorist attacks on September 11. Services and retail
businesses felt the strongest impact. District hotels, airlines, and travel agencies reported sharply lower
revenues. Retailers said that big-ticket sales tumbled in September, though they rebounded somewhat
in October, as consumers began returning to stores and automobile dealerships. Manufacturing
shipments and new orders were generally steady in September. Growth in the housing market slowed
modestly in the weeks since our last report, while leasing of commercial properties continued to trend
downward. Price increases remained generally modest at District businesses. In agriculture, cool, dry
weather was favorable for corn and soybean harvesting, and both were ahead of schedule. Retail: District retailers reported sharply lower sales in September, particularly in the week
following the September 11 terrorist attacks, but a number of contacts noted that their sales rebounded
somewhat in early October. Both shopper traffic and big-ticket sales declined in September.
Automobile dealers said customer traffic dropped by as much as 50 percent immediately after the
attacks. However, customers have returned in the last few weeks, and sales are now running a little
above early September levels, boosted by price and financing incentives. Big-box retailers told us that
their business was back to normal by the end of September, and some indicated that sales of basic
durable goods had picked up in recent weeks. District grocery stores noted stronger sales of canned
goods and bottled water. In contrast to rebounding retail activity in many areas, several retailers in the
Charlotte, N.C., area said they were continuing to see a reduction in customer traffic as banking and
airline layoffs continued in the area. Employment in the retail sector fell moderately in September,
while prices were little changed. Services: Service providers reported somewhat lower revenues in the weeks since our last
report. Many hotels and travel firms reported sharp declines in business and vacation travel
immediately following last month's terrorist attacks. They said that while travel has rebounded in
recent days, bookings are still below pre-September 11 levels. At healthcare organizations in the
District, contacts told us that activity has remained normal since our last report, but several noted that
they were paying more attention to building security and emergency preparedness. A manager at a
trucking firm with operations throughout the District told us that demand facing the company was
below expectations, leading the firm to decrease employee hours, although they have avoided layoffs. Manufacturing: Activity in the manufacturing sector was steady in recent weeks. Shipments
edged higher in September, while new orders matched summer levels. Contacts in the textiles,

electronics, and plastics industries noted scattered signs of stronger demand for their products. A
textile manufacturer in Virginia told us that capacity utilization improved due to new products rolled
out for discount retailers, while a counterpart in North Carolina said that his company was encouraged
by heightened consumer interest in "Made in the U.S.A." products. Several industries, however,
reported weaker sales as a result of the September 11 attacks. A furniture manufacturer in North
Carolina, for example, indicated that his business was just beginning to pick up when the attacks
occurred, but then orders fell dramatically. Prices for manufactured goods were little changed from our
last report. Finance: District loan officers said that while residential mortgage lending continued to be
bolstered by declining mortgage rates, commercial lending activity slowed in recent weeks. Growth in
residential mortgage lending continued to be fueled by refinancing-a Greenville, S.C., lender said that
homeowners were jumping to lock in mortgage rates below 7 percent. In contrast, several commercial
lenders reported that business borrowers had trimmed expansion plans in September. A lender in
Greenville, S.C., described local businesses as having "hunkered-down" and noted that he did not
expect to see a pickup in commercial loan demand in the next few months. A banker in Charleston,
W.V., also reported weak commercial loan demand and expected lending in the retail and hospitality
sectors to be particularly sluggish for a while. Real Estate: Residential realtors and homebuilders reported generally slower growth in home
sales in September and early October. The uncertainty created by events of September 11 reduced
buyer enthusiasm in some markets. Realtors in BelAir, Md., and Beckley, W.V., for example, said that
"everything stopped" on September 11, while a realtor in Greenville, S.C., said that his agency had 19
home sales "fall through" after the attacks. But home sales in many areas continued to hold or even
rise, in part because of lower mortgage rates. A homebuilder in Landover, Md., said that her agency
had been very busy, while a realtor in Asheville, N.C., told us that sales contracts had been steady, and
that lower mortgage rates had "kept them alive." Respondents from several areas stated that sales of expensive homes had virtually halted. They said buyers appeared to have downsized their expectations, and that lower and mid priced homes continued to sell well. Most builders reported little change in subcontractor costs or wage rates. Commercial realtors across the District reported that leasing activity was almost "non-existent"
during the week after the attacks. Since then, leasing activity has gradually regained momentum, but
remains below early September levels. The District's industrial sector remained sluggish and industrial
leasing activity continued to soften-a Northern Virginia realtor noted that many firms utilizing

industrial space were "belt-tightening" and trying to "right-size." The office and retail sectors,
meanwhile, have shown resilience in recent weeks. A contact in Columbia, S.C., reported that despite a
"depressed" attitude within the business community, business firms continued to move forward with
their office leasing plans. The demand for Class A office space was generally flat across the District. In
Washington, D.C., and Northern Virginia, however, office space was being acquired for displaced
Pentagon employees and for other federal government workers. Tourism: Tourism in the District declined sharply in the wake of the terrorist attacks of
September 11, but by early October signs of a rebound had emerged in most areas. Contacts
throughout the District reported widespread cancellations of conventions in September, in part because
of airport shutdowns and flight cancellations. A contact at a hotel in Myrtle Beach, S.C., told us that his
business had lost about $40 to 45 million since the attacks, primarily because of the cancellation of 30
large conventions. He noted, however, that two-thirds of the parties that canceled subsequently
rebooked and that business was almost "back to normal." Respondents in Washington, D.C., said that
area's tourism and hospitality businesses lost about $10 million a day in revenues in September and
that they expected below par revenues in coming months. Temporary Employment: Contacts at temporary employment agencies reported that the
demand for workers had weakened somewhat in recent weeks. While several employment agents were
optimistic that hiring would strengthen over the next few months, others were skeptical. A contact in
Rockville, Md., stated that greater economic uncertainty in light of terrorist attacks and fears of
recession led him to expect lower demand for his agency's services in the coming months. However, a
contact in Raleigh, N.C., said he was seeing a "ready to get back to work" attitude at many firms in his
area and he expected the demand for workers to strengthen soon. Wages for temporary workers were
generally steady throughout the District. Agriculture: Dry weather and cooler-than-normal temperatures provided ideal conditions for
crop harvesting in recent weeks. Corn harvesting was ahead of schedule in Maryland, North Carolina,
and West Virginia, and was drawing to a close in South Carolina and Virginia, where better-than-
expected yields were reported. The soybean harvest was ahead of schedule in Maryland but behind
schedule in West Virginia. District agricultural analysts reported that continued dry conditions were
stressing pastures in Virginia, resulting in an earlier-than-normal feeding of hay to livestock in some
counties.

 VI-1 SIXTH DISTRICT - ATLANTA Summary: Economic activity in the Sixth District was significantly affected by the
terrorist attacks of September 11. The immediate impact was quite negative, including disrupted
sales, air travel and production. Spending appeared to be recovering by late September, but a
sluggish pace of activity is expected to dominate the region's economy over the next few months.
Merchants reported heavy discounting and anticipated weak holiday sales based on the current
low level of "early bird" seasonal shopping. Incentives, such as zero percent financing, bolstered
weak vehicle sales, but sales remained well below year-ago levels overall. The single-family
housing market continued to moderate through early October. Sales have been supported by a
modest reduction of mortgage interest rates, and bankers reported strong refinancing activity.
However, commercial real estate markets remained weak. More projects have been put on hold
or have been cancelled, and vacancy rates continued to rise. Activity in the tourism and
hospitality sector fell across the District after September 11. Traffic has remained low through
early October, particularly where airline travel was involved. The factory sector continued to be
very weak and some contacts noted falling productivity because of the diversion of resources
toward increased security. As before, few signs of increasing inflation were indicated; however,
there were reports of much higher liability insurance premiums since the attacks. Consumer Spending: According to District retailers, sales in September were
disappointing. Activity was severely disrupted by the terrorist attacks as many stores closed and
customers have been slow to return. Discount retailers have fared better than other merchants,
although price discounting has been widespread across store types. There appeared to be a
gradual return to more normal levels of activity by early October, but merchants anticipated
weak holiday sales based on the current low level of "early bird" seasonal shopping.

 VI-2 Contacts reported that the zero percent financing rates and other sales incentives put in
place in September have helped prevent a larger collapse in new vehicle sales. Overall, regional
vehicle sales were down from last year, despite a late month rally in response to special deals.
Some dealers noted that truck sales have been weaker than car sales. Used car dealers noted an
excess supply of used vehicles as rental companies were rapidly de-fleeting in response of slower
business and pleasure travel. Real Estate and Construction: The single-family housing market continued to
moderate through early October. Sales were supported by a modest reduction of mortgage
interest rates. Mid-priced homes were in strongest demand, whereas the market for high-end
homes softened further in central Florida, Atlanta and Nashville. Reports from south Florida
continued to reflect strong demand. Contacts expect new home construction will slow through
the end of the year, but home inventories were generally viewed as being balanced. Commercial real estate markets continued to be characterized by large amounts of
sublease space and rising vacancy rates. As a result of recent events, additional projects have
been postponed or cancelled. Industry contacts indicated that a significant pick up in regional
commercial construction is not expected until next year. Manufacturing: Factory activity continued to weaken in most sectors during
September. More lumber mills are expected to close in the District, and the chemical industry in
Louisiana is reportedly shedding employees because of weakening demand. A large regional
maker of carpet tiles has recently trimmed its work force in light of the slowdown in commercial
building. With production disrupted after September 11 because of transportation problems,
some firms reported increasing their inventory of supplies. Firms also noted falling productivity

 VI-3
because of time-consuming new security measures, such as checking employees and incoming
shipments. Regional suppliers of military apparel reported strong new orders. Tourism and Business Travel: Activity in the tourism and hospitality sector fell
sharply after September 11 and traffic remained low through early October, especially where
airline travel was involved. South and central Florida were particularly hard hit by a large
decline in tourist traffic. European tour operators in Miami noted a large number of
cancellations. Central Florida theme parks reported attendance well below normal levels.
Destinations that were less dependent on air travel, such as the Mississippi Gulf Coast were less
severely impacted. Contacts suggested that increasingly business meetings have been conducted
using teleconferencing rather than air travel. Financial: Through early October, District loan demand remained concentrated in the
residential real estate area, especially for mortgage refinancing. Some lenders were reportedly
showing increased caution toward new consumer loans amid indications of increased loan
delinquencies in parts of the region. There has been some tightening of credit standards in
commercial lending, particularly in the manufacturing sector. Wages and Prices: Wage pressures continued to subside in the face of mounting job
losses in the District during September. In addition to the ongoing contraction in the factory
sector, the tourist and hospitality sector posted declining job rolls throughout the region.
Hotel/motels, restaurants, and tourist attractions in Florida, Georgia and Tennessee reported job
cuts because of low visitor numbers, and the announced job cuts at Delta Airlines will likely hit
the Atlanta area especially hard. In response to recent events, the demand for security personnel
has increased markedly.

 VI-4 Consumer price inflation pressures remained subdued. Indeed, many retailers have
heavily discounted the prices of consumer items in an effort to stimulate activity. Prices of hotel
rooms and airline tickets have also been cut. Gulf Coast oil and natural gas prices have fallen in
response to reduced demand. Significant increases were noted in liability insurance rates since
the September 11 attacks. Agriculture: According to industry contacts, lower citrus prices caused by a glut in the
worldwide supply of orange juice, combined with lower yields related to this year's drought has
reduced the value of Florida citrus crop this year to the lowest levels in over a decade. Recent
weather conditions were favorable for most other District crops. However, about a third of the
cotton crop in Louisiana and Mississippi was rated as being in poor to very poor condition
through early October.

 VII-1 SEVENTH DISTRICT-CHICAGO Summary. On balance, economic activity in the Seventh District slowed further in September and early
October. Reports indicated that the tragic events of September 11 had an immediate negative impact, but
many related business disruptions had been alleviated by the weekend. Consumer spending continued to
soften, with sales of nondurable goods doing better than sales of most durable goods and services.
Residential construction and real estate markets slowed some, but low mortgage rates kept buyers in the
market. Commercial real estate markets weakened noticeably, with businesses becoming more uncertain
about investment plans. Manufacturing activity continued to slow, and increased business caution further
dampened capital expenditures. Lending activity was mixed, with demand for business loans falling and
mortgage refinancing surging. Labor demand softened and there were few reports of intensifying upward
wage pressures. There were virtually no reports of upward price pressures and several reports of falling
transaction prices. Most contacts were satisfied with their current inventory levels. The fall crop harvest was
generally progressing well, with good yields reported in the southern and eastern parts of the District, though
there were indications of "spotty" and "disappointing" yields in the north and west. Consumer spending. Consumer spending was somewhat softer in September and early October, after
temporarily dropping off significantly during the period immediately after September 11. Contacts noted that
by late September and early October, fundamental economic factors-rising unemployment and falling stock
prices adversely, and low inflation and interest rates positively-affected retail sales more than terrorist
fears. Sales results of discount stores continued to outperform those of department and specialty stores, and
in some cases the spread widened. One contact reported that retailers were canceling or delaying orders for
the holiday season. Promotional activity was generally slower, though there were some reports of small
retailers boosting advertisements. In general, sales of nondurable goods were better than sales of durable
goods, but there were exceptions. While clothing sales were soft, appliance sales were beginning to see year-
over-year gains, excluding a few days after September 11. District vehicle sales have been very strong since
automakers announced zero percent financing programs in late September; one dealer reported that 35-50
percent of their September sales came in the last weekend of the month. Contacts in the casual dining
industry reported that activity in the District was weak. Spending on services, such as air travel, hotels, auto
repair, and rental cars, generally was weak, though business at a District movie theatre chain was described
as "steady." Contacts in the air travel industry reported that passenger load factors were below normal, but up
from when air travel initially resumed in mid-September. One contact at a regional airport indicated that load
factors on flights at smaller airports were in worse shape than those at larger ones. There were no reports of
inflationary price pressures on the retail level. Most contacts reported that consumers were increasingly price
conscious and there were many reports of price discounts.

 VII-2 Construction/real estate. Real estate and construction activities generally softened notably in the weeks
after September 11. Office vacancy rates continued to rise in most areas and rents were said to be flat to
declining. Reports of anxiety among occupants of some of Chicago's trophy office properties became more
frequent. According to one contact, "more than one" tenant of a prominent office tower in the city were
looking to leave the building, for fear of losing workers left skittish by the World Trade Center attacks. Some
tenants noted that workers in high-rise buildings were less productive because of security distractions. One
hotel operator reported that vacancy rates were rising and many room bookings had been lost since
September 11, including 30 percent of the company's convention business. Vacancy rates were also said to
be rising on industrial properties in some areas, and there were scattered reports of light industrial projects
being put on hold. Contacts in commercial real estate reported that their clients had become decidedly more
pessimistic since September 11. Residential activity also slumped immediately after September 11, but
picked up later in the month as low mortgage interest rates kept buyers in the market. One Chicago-area
realtor indicated that traffic through existing homes had picked up to about 85 percent of early September
levels; however, according to other District contacts, traffic through new models had not picked up to the
same extent. Both realtors and builders noted that demand remained soft for high-end homes, and may have
softened further. Manufacturing. Activity at District manufacturers continued to weaken in September and early October,
and there was no mention of bottoming as there had been in our previous Beige Book report. Contacts
generally reported that orders and shipments were down by double-digit percentages from a year earlier.
Reports almost universally indicated that the events of September 11 had an immediate negative impact, but
the extent and length of that impact varied. Contacts reported some supply chain disruptions due to increased
security at U.S. borders, but as the problems eased in a few days, none had any plans to increase inventories
to prevent any future potential shortages. In the week following September 11, nationwide light vehicle sales
dropped around 50 percent, but zero percent financing programs by domestic automakers contributed to a
sales surge late in the month that continued into early October. Contacts were unsure whether the incentives
were only taking sales away from future months, rather than generating new sales, though one noted, "We
are planning for the worst, hoping for the best." There were some reports of rental car companies reducing
their fleets and orders for new vehicles. Plant shutdowns on September 11 and subsequent delays in receiving
parts from Canada and Mexico led to significantly larger-than-planned vehicle production losses. Heavy
truck sales continued to languish, but it was difficult for contacts to determine how much the tragedies on
September 11 affected sales. Steel shipments and production were down significantly, with production
declines larger in the Midwest than the rest of the nation. Orders for machine tools declined and one industry
contact noted, "This is the worst business environment I have seen in my 29-year career." Shipments of
heavy machinery continued to fall, with somewhat larger declines seen following September 11.
Construction equipment suffered the most, while farm equipment demand was flat and demand for coal

 VII-3
mining equipment was solid. A representative from one equipment maker in the District lamented that the
overwhelming uncertainty in the current economy was "the enemy of capital spending." Contacts reported
that prices for most manufactured products, materials, and inputs were down. Banking/finance. Overall lending activity was mixed in recent weeks, as uncertainty about the near-term
economic outlook increased. Bankers suggested that business lending slowed as firms appeared to be putting
major decisions on hold. In addition, reports indicated that some businesses were weighing future capital
spending against increased investment in security. Loan officers at some banks were reportedly "spending
more time combing through existing accounts than mining for new business." Commercial loan quality
deteriorated further in recent weeks, but there were no reported changes in standards and terms for business
loans. On the household side, mortgage refinancing activity surged in recent weeks as homeowners took
advantage of lower interest rates. One banker noted that refinancing activity was near record levels and
would most likely exceed them in coming weeks. Demand for new mortgages was reportedly mixed, but
relatively strong. One lender stated that "if you have the need, there is no better time" to take out a mortgage.
Credit quality continued to deteriorate slightly, with delinquencies increasing on many types of loans,
including mortgages and home-equity loans. Labor markets. Labor markets softened further after September 11. Year-over-year increases in initial
unemployment insurance claims surged in the weeks following the attacks. Tourism and travel firms in some
larger metro areas were quick to trim payrolls as business fell off significantly after September 11. One
aircraft engineering firm in the District has sharply cutback its hiring needs and has begun laying off
workers. Some reports suggested that retailers' fall hiring will be slower than in recent years as expectations
for the holiday shopping season weakened. At least one national retail chain was already reported to be
shedding workers. Some high-tech services firms continued to layoff workers and at least one also cut top
executives' pay. There were reports of automakers shedding or considering layoffs of some white-collar
workers in a new attempt to cut costs. A national survey showed that fourth-quarter hiring plans of Midwest
employers were the lowest since 1994. There were no reports of intensifying upward pressure on wages. Agriculture. Soybean and corn harvests were progressing rapidly in District states. Harvest in the
southern and eastern reaches of the District neared completion. The USDA's October 12 Production Report
revised upward (from September) estimated soybean and corn production in District states. The soybean
harvest was expected to be up more that 4 percent from last year while corn production was expected to be
down about 3-1/2 percent. Some District contacts were surprised by the upward revisions. They noted that, as
expected, the "best crops" were in the southern and eastern portions of the Corn Belt. However, recorded
yields were dropping off sharply as the harvest moved north and west. They expected that average yields
would fall below the latest USDA estimates. Most crop prices at the farm gate remained at low levels--corn
slightly above a year ago and soybeans well below a year ago. Beef and pork prices weakened recently.
However, milk prices were at or near their highest levels in a decade.

 VIII-1 Eighth District - St. Louis
Summary Economic activity in the District has continued to slow, particularly in the manufacturing
sector. Automobile sales were lower for the period immediately following the attacks of
September 11th, but have lower interest rates have bolstered sales more recently. The residential
real estate market has softened, and some parts of the District are also seeing softer commercial
real estate markets. Total loans by District banks are down slightly, but the recent trend toward
stricter loan standards has become less pronounced. Although crop conditions and yields have
been mixed due to recent rains, corn and soybean yields have been better than expected.
Manufacturing and Other Business Activity Overall, the level of activity in the District's manufacturing sector is lower than in recent
months. Districtwide, boat, auto and tire, furniture, packaging, carpet, and electronic materials
plants are among those facing cutbacks and closures, citing reduced orders and weak consumer
confidence. In contrast, contacts in northeast Arkansas note that, although there is little talk of
expansion in the manufacturing sector, talk of impending layoffs or closures has actually
decreased. Service industry contacts report flat-to-slowing activity throughout the District. In
response to diminished air travel, increasing costs, and narrowing profits, the Northwest Airlines
hub in Memphis cut 1,100 jobs and reduced services. Following the September 1lth attacks, the
trucking industry experienced a brief increase in activity while air service was grounded, but has
since seen freight volumes decline. Automobile dealers throughout the District report that traffic
has picked up after the initial drop in the two weeks following September 11th, but that sales still
remains lower than usual for this time of year. In St. Louis, auto manufacturers stopped

 VIII-2
production for a week to allow sales to catch up with inventories, although this did not involve
any permanent worker layoffs. Manufacturer incentives, including zero-percent interest rates,
have helped to bolster sales of new autos, but not by as much as some dealers had hoped.
Retailers, too, note flat sales. Nonetheless, they express guarded optimism as they prepare for
the holiday season, which could make or break their year.
Real Estate and Construction Residential real estate sales in the District were mixed over the past six weeks following
the events of September 11th. Agents in Louisville and Little Rock report a drop in housing
sales, while sales in northern Mississippi and Memphis remained steady. Without lower
mortgage rates, sales levels would have been lower. Realtors throughout the District say that the
number of appointments to show homes is also down from a year ago. The market for office and
industrial space is still strong in Louisville and Memphis. A contact in St. Louis, however,
reports a decrease in the number of tenants signing leases for office space along with an increase
in vacancy rates. Residential construction still looks strong: over three-fourths of the District's
metropolitan areas experienced an increase in monthly building permits from July to August, and
August's levels were higher than a year earlier. Commercial construction in western Kentucky
has slowed, although contacts in the rest of the District do not report any changes. Major
projects to improve Kentucky's highways, dams, and bridges will expand construction
opportunities in that portion of the District.
Banking and Finance A recent survey of senior loan officers at District banks indicates tighter standards for
commercial and industrial (C&I) loans to technology firms in the last three months. Credit

 VIII-3
standards for commercial real estate loans, residential mortgages, consumer loans, and credit
cards were largely unchanged. Demand for C&I loans and consumer loans has become
moderately weaker. Contacts report that demand for commercial real estate loans, residential
mortgages, and refinancing has increased markedly following the recent reductions in the federal
funds target. Contacts report that there were no problems with bank liquidity following the September 11th attacks. Small banks in western Tennessee and Mississippi continue to be troubled with
bankruptcies and increases in the number of loan delinquencies. Larger urban banks have
reported increases in loan loss provisions.
Agriculture and Natural Resources The fall harvest is on schedule, although recent rains have delayed field activities in most
areas of the District. Reports from northwest Mississippi suggest that, because of late-season
rain damage, some early-planted soybeans were plowed under because of fungus. A light frost
hit the northern parts of the District in early October, but no significant damage to soybeans was
reported, as the soybean and corn crops, on the whole, had already reached full maturity. That said, in portions of Illinois and Indiana, farmers have focused on harvesting soybeans ahead of
corn so as to avoid potential frost damage. The soybean harvest is ahead of last year's pace in
Arkansas, Kentucky, Illinois, and Indiana, but behind schedule in Missouri, Mississippi, and
Tennessee. The corn and cotton harvests in the District are, on average, behind last year's pace.
In contrast, the rice harvest in Arkansas and Mississippi is ahead of last year's pace. Early reports from Illinois, Indiana, and Missouri farmers suggest that yields are widely mixed for corn and soybeans, as scattered rainfall throughout much of the growing season

 VIII-4
resulted in an uneven harvest. Contacts report that yields on corn and soybeans are running at or
slightly above what many farmers had expected.

 IX-1 NINTH DISTRICT--MINNEAPOLIS
Economic activity in the Ninth District has weakened since Sept. 11. Tourism, commercial
real estate, manufacturing, agriculture and mining are down, while residential real estate,
consumer spending and energy activity are about even. Labor markets have been disrupted
by major layoffs and a Minnesota state government employee strike. Overall wage and
price increases are moderate, with the exception of higher health insurance costs and
lower natural gas, gasoline and lumber prices.
Construction and Real Estate
Construction activity in the district is down from a year ago. Leasing and sales for office
building space were significantly down in September compared with a year ago in the
Minneapolis area, according to a representative of a commercial real estate firm.
Commercial real estate officials in Minneapolis-St. Paul reported that rental rates have
dropped since July. However, an economic development official in Fargo, N.D., noted that
commercial construction activity did not slow down during September and early October. Residential real estate activity is generally level. A representative of a realtors
association in the Minneapolis area reported that since Sept. 11 buyers and sellers have
returned to the market, but sales are at a slower pace than they were earlier this year. Price
increases for homes have recently slowed, according to a mortgage broker. September
building permits in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area were even with a year ago, said a
builders association spokesperson. In Sioux Falls, S.D., a banker reported that real estate
activity is still busy following Sept. 11. Officials in Rochester, Minn., noted a record
number of new home starts during September.
Consumer Spending and Tourism
Retail sales are about the same as a year ago. A major Minneapolis-based department
store retailer noted that overall same-store sales in September were almost even with a
year earlier. A North Dakota mall manager reported about average sales for this time of
year. In Montana a mall manager reported that while luxury items, such as jewelry, are
down, recent sales of many low- to mid-priced products are higher than a year ago. A
Minneapolis-area mall reported solid sales during September compared with the same
period last year. However, the larger tenants in a St. Paul-area mall reported September
sales down from a year ago.

 IX-2 Auto dealers in Minnesota reported a gradual shift back to normal fall activity in
both sales and service following a decline during the week after Sept. 11, according to a
representative of the Minnesota auto dealers association. A North Dakota auto dealers
association spokesperson noted strong sales from mid-September through early October
after sluggish sales in early September, in large part due to zero percent financing. Tourism businesses that rely on air service report lower levels of activity compared
with a year ago. Total passengers at regional airports were down about 30 percent in
September compared with last year. Hotel occupancy in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area
dropped about 20 percent during the first two weeks following Sept. 11 compared with a
year ago, caused in part to 11 convention cancellations. However, no conventions have
canceled for October, and hotel occupancy showed signs of improvement by the beginning
of October. In contrast, driving destinations report steady activity. September tourism in
northern Wisconsin was about the same as a year ago, according to chamber of commerce
officials. Several tourism businesses and destinations in South Dakota reported normal activity during September. Chamber of commerce officials in northern Minnesota and
Montana noted that higher security and longer wait times at Canadian border crossings
have had a minimal effect on tourism. However, in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan crossings at the International Bridge at Sault Ste. Marie were off 24 percent in September compared with a year ago. Manufacturing Overall manufacturing activity is slightly down, but conditions vary across the district. A September survey of purchasing managers by Creighton University indicated decreases in manufacturing activity in Minnesota and increased activity in the Dakotas. As evidence, a
Minnesota electronic control producer is reducing production. A data storage plant in
North Dakota is expanding production. A farm equipment manufacturer will close a
factory in Minnesota and transfer production to a South Dakota plant. An Upper Peninsula medical equipment maker plans to expand its manufacturing facility. Supply disruptions were not significant, according to 73 percent of respondents of an early October survey of former bank directors and advisory council members. However, some contacts reported the increased use of trucks instead of planes to ship supplies and products and longer delays at international border crossings since Sept. 11.

 IX-3
Mining and Energy
Activity in the energy sector is level, while mining production decreased. District oil and
natural gas exploration levels remain about the same as last quarter. Two northern
Minnesota iron ore mines shut down in October for six weeks and eight weeks
respectively to reduce inventories.
Agriculture
Agricultural conditions have deteriorated across the district. The harvest for many district
crops is behind last year. Small grain production is down significantly from last year.
Meanwhile, October hog and cattle futures prices decreased 3 percent and 5 percent
respectively from Sept. 10 to Oct. 9. Meanwhile, due to increased enrolled acres, October
year-over-year Conservation Reserve Program payments increased across the district from
5 percent in North Dakota to 8 percent in Minnesota.
Employment, Wages and Prices
Airlines and other travel-related industries have reported layoffs since Sept. 11. A major
Minnesota-based airline will cut 10,000 jobs company-wide (4,500 jobs in Minnesota), a
smaller carrier plans to reduce staff by 250 jobs, and an affiliated travel company will cut 150 jobs. A regional carrier will shed 400 jobs. About 200 jobs will be cut at least
temporarily at a company that prepares food for airline flights. In addition, about 28,000
state employees in Minnesota were on strike for two weeks in October. However, results
of the survey of former bank directors and advisory council members show that 82 percent
expect no change in employment levels as a result of the Sept. 11 attacks. Wage increases remain moderate. A temporary staffing agency in Minnesota
reported no changes in wages since Sept. 11. Overall price increases remain modest, with significant price increases expected in
health insurance and decreases noted in natural gas, gasoline and lumber prices. Many
businesses in South Dakota expect 20 percent increases in health insurance rates for 2002
compared to 2001, according to the state chamber of commerce. November futures prices
for natural gas decreased 11 percent from Sept. 10 to Oct. 9, while prices for gasoline in
Minnesota dropped 34 percent from Sept. 10 to Oct. 8. Lumber prices declined after Sept. 11, according to a lumber company owner. Almost 60 percent of respondents to the
former director and advisory council survey expect no change in expenses for their
company due to Sept. 11; 26 percent expect expenses to increase.

 TENTH DISTRICT - KANSAS CITY Overview. The Tenth District economy weakened in September and early October. Retail sales
dropped immediately following the terrorist attacks and recovered only partially in the next several weeks. In
addition, the slump in manufacturing worsened, residential construction activity slowed, and commercial real
estate activity declined. Energy activity also fell somewhat after increasing most of the year. In the farm
economy, fall crop yields were mixed and weaker cattle prices trimmed profits for cattle feeders. District
labor markets eased, as previously scheduled job cuts took effect and more layoffs were announced. Wage
pressures remained minimal outside of a few skilled occupations. Retail prices and prices for construction
and manufacturing materials were largely stable, while manufacturing output prices edged down. Retail Sales. Retail sales declined from the previous survey and were below year-ago levels in most
of the district. Many stores shut down on the day of the terrorist attacks and most experienced slower than
normal sales the rest of that week. Sales had recovered somewhat by the following weekend but remained
below normal in most places through early October. High-end retailers generally suffered the biggest
declines in sales, while large discount stores and grocery stores fared better. Retailers expect activity to
remain somewhat subdued through the holiday shopping season. Motor vehicle sales in September were
strong in some areas due to attractive financing packages, but remained soft in others due to consumers'
unease about the economy. Dealers expect sales to weaken once the consumer incentives come to an end. Manufacturing. District factory activity weakened again after showing some signs of improvement
in August. A greater percentage of firms reported year-over-year declines in production, shipments, and most
other indicators of factory activity. In addition, more manufacturers reported declines in employment than in
previous surveys. Layoffs were announced in a variety of industries, but especially among aircraft
manufacturers and parts suppliers. Several firms mentioned that the biggest immediate impact of the terrorist
acts was a reduction in executive air travel, which they feared could disrupt sales. Capital expenditures at
district plants continued to fall along with expectations of future activity. Most plants were trimming

 X-2
inventories in September and planned to continue doing so. No significant material shortages were reported,
and supplier delivery times were little changed despite some disruptions immediately following the terrorist
attacks. Real Estate and Construction. Residential construction activity eased in September and early
October, and commercial real estate markets continued to weaken. Housing starts were down in most cities,
with some cities reporting considerable declines. Many builders reported a dropoff in customer interest
following the terrorist attacks and some said a few customers cancelled orders. Some builders, however,
reported that demand was slowing even before the attacks. Home sales were markedly below year-ago levels
in some cities, and many realtors reported reductions in buyer traffic. Mortgage demand held steady in
September as increased refinancing activity made up for fewer home purchase applications. Commercial real
estate activity declined somewhat further, with construction, rents, and absorption all showing more
weakness. Vacancy rates were higher than a year ago in nearly all district cities, and slightly higher than in
the summer. Commercial lending standards were reported to be slightly tighter than in the previous survey. Banking. Bankers report that loans decreased and deposits increased since the last survey, reducing
loan-deposit ratios. Demand fell for commercial and industrial loans, consumer loans, and commercial real
estate loans. A number of bankers attributed the weaker demand for these categories to increased caution on
the part of borrowers, some of whom are making a greater effort to pay down their loans. On the deposit
side, increases in demand deposits outweighed declines in large CDs. All respondent banks reduced their
prime lending rates since the last survey, and almost all banks decreased their consumer lending rates. A few
banks tightened their lending standards, citing the slowdown in the economy and the increase in uncertainty. Energy. Energy activity in the district declined in September and early October. The region's count
of active oil and gas drilling rigs continued to fall from a 14-year high established in July, reaching a six-
month low in the first week of October. Some producers attributed the decline in drilling to the steep fall in
natural gas prices since last winter, which has discouraged the drilling of marginal wells. District sources
expected natural gas prices to remain fairly low through 2002, but believe long-run prospects for the energy

 X-3
industry are still favorable. Agriculture. Fall crop yields were mixed across the district, and district cattle feeders suffered some
decline in profits. With the fall harvest almost complete, corn and soybean yields in the southern part of the
district were below normal due to adverse weather over the summer. Elsewhere, yields were average or
better. Rainfall came in time for planting of the district's winter wheat crop, which is generally ahead of
schedule. Large supplies of market-ready cattle put downward pressure on finished cattle prices, trimming
profits for district cattle feeders. Bankers reported that small business activity in rural areas was sluggish,
continuing the slowdown that began prior to the terrorist bombings. Wages and Prices. District labor markets eased in September and early October, as sizable job cuts
were announced and previously announced layoffs took effect in many parts of the district. Employers were
reported to be taking more time in screening and hiring new workers, with many having a waiting list of
applicants for the first time in several years. Several retailers said they would not be hiring as many
temporary holiday workers as in previous years. Worker shortages persisted, however, for nurses and skilled
construction trades. Wage pressures remained minimal outside of these fields. Several contacts reported that
there has been a definite shift in unions' focus from wages to working conditions over the last six months.
Retail prices were flat for most items, although several stores lowered prices to clear excess inventory. Most
store managers expect flat prices through the remainder of the year. In the manufacturing sector, input prices
were flat and output prices fell slightly. Both input and output prices are expected to edge up in coming
months. Builders reported that prices for most construction materials were stable.

 XI-1 ELEVENTH DISTRICT-DALLAS Eleventh District economic activity weakened further in late September and early October. Many
service businesses reported a severe drop in demand following the week of September 11th, and activity has
not returned to the level of early September. Retail sales also weakened. Manufacturing activity has
accelerated its decline, and the energy industry has weakened considerably. Construction and real estate
activity fell. Financial service firms reported weaker loan demand. Agricultural conditions continued to
worsen. Prices and Labor Markets. Price declines were widely reported. Oil prices fell $5 per barrel since
the last Beige Book, and inventories of crude and products have risen sharply. Many contacts reported a
drop in selling prices, and some anticipate further price declines. Raw material costs are also declining,
although in many cases not as fast as selling prices. Fuel surcharges have been eliminated. Insurance costs
have increased sharply for some firms. The labor market has softened dramatically. Many layoffs have occurred, particularly at firms in
the travel and tourism industries. Several service and manufacturing industries are contemplating layoffs or
additional layoffs. Contacts reported that it is significantly easier to hire than at this time last year. While
wage pressures have subsided, health insurance costs have more than doubled for some firms. Manufacturing. Manufacturing activity accelerated its decline in September and early October.
Several industries reported a reduction in their sales and outlook following September 11, including high
technology, glass, apparel and fabricated metals. Producers supplying the automobile industry reported a
sharp drop in sales. Downstream energy-related manufacturing has benefited from lower oil and natural gas
prices, but weak demand and overcapacity dampen the outlook for these industries. Construction-related
manufacturing continues to slow. Some construction-related manufacturers, particularly those supplying home building and highway
construction, reported little change in activity, although some have revised down their outlook. Contacts in
the cement industry say they are continuing to work off backlogs of demand. Cement producers do not
expect to see any affects from the September 1 1 thattacks until next year, if at all. Brick manufacturers
reported continued slowing of demand, as single-family home construction decelerates. The lumber
industry reported a slight decrease in demand, although contacts have become more pessimistic about their
outlook. Demand for fabricated metals was slowing prior to September 11 and is slowing faster now. One
contact said conditions are "as tough as I've seen them in 10 years." Selling prices have fallen dramatically,
according to contacts who say that structural steel is selling at prices of 20 years ago. Raw materials prices
have also declined, but margins are very thin. Primary metals producers say activity has slowed since
earlier in the year, but they have yet to feel any effects of the September 11th attack.

 XI-2 Glass producers reported drastic declines in demand since the last Beige Book. Sales of glass for
commercial purposes are down as much as 40 percent, while sales for residential building fell 15 percent.
Sales of glass used for automobiles also declined, as some car plants scaled back production. Inventories of
glass are high, prices are falling, and production is being reduced. Apparel demand has also softened since September 11. Orders of apparel have been cancelled and
inventory has been returned, causing inventories to build. Demand for food products picked up briefly after
September 11th because consumers were stocking up on some products. However, demand has now
returned to early September levels. Inventories of frozen strawberries and some vegetables are low because
of weather-related production problems in Mexico. High-tech manufacturing activity weakened after September 11, and many contacts said their
business customers have put orders on hold. Contacts reported in the last Beige Book that they were
optimistic the industry was bottoming out. That optimism has dissipated, and most contacts expect a
slightly steeper downturn with the recovery pushed forward from the end of this year to the first or second
quarter of 2002. All high tech respondents reported that they have been successful in maintaining lean
inventories, with the exception of the telecommunications industry. Telecommunications firms continue to
report weak and falling demand. Layoffs continue, and contacts say that companies are in need of cash. A
rebound is not expected until the third quarter of 2002, at the earliest. Responses from paper and packaging producers varied depending on the industries they sell to.
Some producers reported a slight increase in demand while others, such as one selling to the auto industry,
reported a severe drop. A company that sells packaging for exports also reported a drop in demand.
Demand for printing has fallen sharply, according to contacts, who say this is the worst printing market in
the last 20 years. Petrochemical contacts say falling natural gas prices have led to a pick up in export demand
because the competitive position of domestic producers relative to the rest of the world has improved. The
industry continues to suffer from severe overcapacity, however, and chemical prices fell along with
feedstock prices. Demand for refiners on the Gulf Coast has been helped by problems following a fire at a Chicago
refinery. Refiners reported improved margins because the price of product has fallen more slowly than the
price of crude oil. Gulf Coast refineries continue to produce at high levels. They are just entering the
turnaround season, shutting plants for maintenance and switching from gasoline to heating oil production.
Jet fuel is easily converted to heating oil, and contacts expect much of the reduced demand for jet fuel to be
used to build heating oil stocks. Fears of shortages of heating oil this winter have quickly abated, and
inventories are already 7 percent higher than last year. Services. Service sector activity was mixed in September and early October with some industries
reporting a slight softening of activity while others reported sharp declines. There was a sharp drop in
demand for hotels, car rentals, tourism, airlines and airline-related firms after September 11 , which has led

 XI-3
to a large number of layoffs. Transportation firms reported that passenger and cargo volume is down.
Airline demand is currently down roughly 30 percent from pre-September 11th levels. Airline revenues are
below operating costs, according to contacts, despite layoffs and other efforts to reduce costs. Railroads and
the trucking industry also reported a slight decline in demand that they attribute to the slowing economy.
While transportation firms benefit from the drop in fuel prices, they say insurance costs have increased
significantly. Business service firms reported little change in activity, although some contacts have revised down
their outlook for sales growth. Demand for temporary services remained soft. Contacts say they have
revised down their outlook for the remainder of the year. The industry expects to continue to grow next
year, but at relatively weak levels. Legal firms reported strong demand overall. Real estate and other
transactional activity (mergers, venture capital) have dropped tremendously, according to contacts, but
court cases and bankruptcy-related work is on the rise. Retail Sales. Retail sales weakened in September and early October. Sales fell sharply during the
week of September 11th,rebounded strongly, then tapered off. Sales are now below the pre-attack levels for
most retailers-significantly below for some. Contacts say consumers are staying away from malls because
of security concerns. Consumers have become more cost conscious and have increased purchases of
consumables. Inventories are up-substantially for some retailers. Discounting has accelerated, which has
reduced profits. Further discounting is expected. All retailers have reduced their outlook for sales growth,
and several noted extreme uncertainty. In general, most are projecting a subdued holiday season. Retailers
are reducing their seasonal hiring, and some are restructuring, laying off workers, or restricting hiring at the
executive level. Auto dealers reported a significant, sharp drop in demand after September 11, but sales have picked
up over the past two weeks, boosted by many dealers offering zero percent financing. Contacts expressed
concern that sales will drop off when the financing incentives are no longer available. Used car sales are
down roughly 25 percent. Financial Services. Loan demand continued to weaken. Deposit growth is mixed, with some
institutions reporting continued slow growth and others, mostly smaller institutions and credit unions,
reporting a pick up in the rate of deposit growth. In addition to new deposits, loan payoffs have accelerated
dramatically in the last two months. Contacts expect delinquencies to increase later this year. Construction and Real Estate. Overall construction and real estate activity fell since the last
Beige Book. Single-family home sales suffered steep declines following September 11, but have bounced
back a bit. Builders reported that home sale cancellations have increased steadily since the attacks. Selling
prices are falling. The first-time buyer market continues to be strong, however. Multifamily activity has
also declined, and contacts are deferring projects that "don't have to open." Nonresidential markets remained very soft, particularly in tech-heavy Dallas and Austin. Office
rents declined 15 percent in the last two months and are expected to fall another 10 to 15 percent before a

 XI-4
turnaround. Contacts say subleasing has leveled off. The big box industrial market is overbuilt, contacts
say, and projects have been shelved. Commercial builders are "getting hungry" as backlogs decline. Energy. Drilling activity weakened considerably in the past six weeks. Oil demand dropped nearly
5 percent, led by a reduction in the consumption of jet fuel. U.S. drilling activity fell by 110 working rigs,
with virtually the entire decline in gas-directed drilling. Offshore drilling, which declined sharply over the
summer, has stabilized in recent weeks. Declines are now reported in expensive on-shore areas. Day rates
for rigs continued to fall. Orders for oil services and equipment have softened some, but contacts reported
that prices are still fairly good, boosted by international drilling. However, the domestic market is expected
to soften substantially over the next few months. Some respondents expect the U.S. rig count, which is just
over 1100 rigs, to fall to 800 rigs by early next year. Agriculture. Agricultural conditions continued to worsen. Some areas remained dry, but heavy
rains delayed harvest and damaged crops in other areas, bringing large financial losses for affected
producers. Demand for cotton has turned sluggish, exacerbating already large world stocks. Cotton prices
are low, and contacts say they could fall further. Beef demand also softened some, as eating away from
home has declined. Supplemental feeding of livestock remained constant for many producers, but quantities
were decreasing as pastures were improving.

 XII- 1 TWELFTH DISTRICT - SAN FRANCISCO
Summary Contacts reported that economic activity slowed during the survey period of September
through early October, as the negative repercussions of the September 11 terrorist attacks added
to underlying weakness in many sectors. Upward pressure on wages and prices was limited
overall, with price declines or discounts noted for gasoline, travel-related services, and some
categories of retail goods. Retail and travel spending dropped precipitously during the week of
September 11, then recovered noticeably but generally remained below respondents' pre-attack
expectations. Production and employment in most manufacturing sectors fell, and firms held back
on investment. Ample supply and low prices were reported for most agricultural products.
Demand for real estate and construction activity fell in most areas, with some projects facing
financing and insurance obstacles. Loan demand at banks weakened somewhat, especially for
business loans.
Wages and Prices Wages and final prices of goods and services exhibited little or no upward movement on
average, with price declines evident for some items during the survey period. Since September 11, sharp reductions in tourist and business travel have led to substantial discounts on hotel rooms
and airline tickets. Respondents also noted discounts for some retail goods, especially clothing at
department stores, and retail prices fell for gasoline and natural gas. By contrast, the payments
for some types of insurance policies rose, and medical insurance costs reportedly were running 15
percent or more above their levels from a year ago. Wage increases were moderate, in the range
of 2 to 4 percent on an annual basis. In some areas, greater availability of workers led to more
downward flexibility in salary negotiations.

 XII- 2
Retail Trade and Services Consumer spending was weak overall during the survey period. Following a sharp drop in
retail spending during the week of the attacks, reports for some areas and sectors indicated a
rebound to pre-attack spending levels, although these already were somewhat weak. Other
reports indicated only partial recovery, with sales generally running 5 to 10 percent below pre-
attack expectations. Some department stores, which were hit hardest by the spending slowdown,
commenced sizeable layoffs. By contrast, large discount chains saw solid demand, with year-
over-year sales gains reported. Automobile sales fell about 50 percent during the week of
September 11; by the end of September, sales had improved but remained below normal. Except
for weakness on the day of the attacks, sales at grocery stores and pharmacies reportedly were
strong throughout the survey period, as some consumers apparently switched from restaurant
visits to home dining and continued to buy necessary medical items. Demand for services by consumers and businesses was quite weak, as spending on travel
and tourism plummeted during the weeks following the attacks. In Hawaii, tourist visits and
spending were about 25 to 30 percent below normal. Airlines in general reduced flights by about 15 to 20 percent at District airports. Hotel occupancy rates, which already were running below
year-earlier levels prior to September 11, fell by half or more during the week immediately
following the attacks; by month-end, they had improved but remained quite low, with reported
rates ranging from 10 to 50 percent below normal. Advertisers and media outlets saw reduced
demand for advertising space and commercial time during the week of the attacks, which
exacerbated pre-existing weakness in that sector. Firms in all of these sectors laid off large
numbers of employees.

 XII - 3
Manufacturing Production and employment fell further in the manufacturing sector during the survey
period. Although capacity utilization reportedly held steady or increased slightly for
semiconductor manufacturers, sales declines and employment cutbacks continued. Similar
shrinkage was evident among makers of apparel and machine tools, and manufacturers of wood
products saw a sharp decline in sales accompanied by rising inventories and falling prices. Food
processing firms continued to struggle, with plant closures and bankruptcies reported in
Washington, Oregon, and California. Boeing announced plans for sharp reductions in production
and employment due to the expectation of ongoing weak demand for air travel in the wake of the
September 11 attacks. On the upside, demand for a few high-tech products, most notably data
storage and security systems and wireless communications equipment, held steady or increased in
the aftermath of the attacks. Production and delivery delays were reported for many products
after the attacks, although the disruptions generally were of limited duration and severity.
Investment plans reportedly remain on hold in most areas as firms assess future sales prospects,
with little change in plans reported as a direct result of the September 11 attacks.
Agriculture and Resource-related Industries Agricultural contacts reported good yields and low prices on most agricultural products,
with the exception of some grains. Crop yields and quality were high for tree fruits, and recent
grape harvests point to double-digit growth over last year's levels in California and Oregon. By
contrast, dry conditions in the Pacific Northwest restricted the supply of grains such as hay and
alfalfa, and their prices were high. The supply of beef cattle to market was high, and the price
was held low by weak exports to Japan and a reported decline in domestic demand for beef.
Respondents provided scattered reports of shipping difficulties; limited availability of air freight

 XII - 4
during the two weeks following September 11 reduced sales of fresh produce to the East Coast,
and these lost sales were not replaced later.
Real Estate and Construction Demand for residential and commercial property eased and current and planned
construction activity fell somewhat throughout the District during the survey period. Contacts in
most areas reported higher vacancy rates for office and other commercial space compared to
earlier in the year. Commercial construction activity had slowed prior to September 11, and
uncertainty regarding financing, insurance availability, and future demand for space following the
attacks put some planned projects on hold. The pace of transactions and price appreciation also
moderated for residential real estate in some areas, due partly but not entirely to fallout from the
attacks.
Financial Institutions Loan demand weakened somewhat during the survey period. Respondents in several
areas noted declining demand, especially for loans to businesses, and slightly increasing
delinquencies. The sole exception was Southern California, where a respondent reported a
resumption of solid demand following a slowdown during the week of September 11. Activities
at some financial institutions were disrupted by market closures and limited availability of
overnight and express mail deliveries due to security precautions in the immediate aftermath of the
attacks. Brokerage firms laid off workers in some areas, due to weak conditions in stock markets.

