 For use at 2:00 p.m., E.D.T. Wednesday September 7, 2011
Summary of Commentary on ____________________ Current Economic Conditions By Federal Reserve District August 2011

SUMMARY OF COMMENTARY ON CURRENT ECONOMIC CONDITIONS BY FEDERAL RESERVE DISTRICT AUGUST 2011

 TABLE OF CONTENTS
SUMMARY...……………………………………..……..i
First District – Boston…………………………...…..…I-1
Second District – New York…………………...……...II-1
Third District – Philadelphia……………………...…..III-1
Fourth District – Cleveland………………...…….…...IV-1
Fifth District – Richmond……………………...……....V-1
Sixth District – Atlanta……………………...…….…..VI-1
Seventh District – Chicago…………………...….…...VII-1
Eight District – St. Louis……………………….....…VIII-1
Ninth District – Minneapolis……………………….….IX-1
Tenth District – Kansas City…………………………....X-1
Eleventh District – Dallas……………………………...XI-1
Twelfth District – San Francisco……………………...XII-1

 i SUMMARY* Reports from the twelve Federal Reserve Districts indicated that economic activity
continued to expand at a modest pace, though some Districts noted mixed or weakening activity.
The St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts all reported either
modest or slight expansion. Atlanta said activity continued to expand at a very subdued pace,
while Cleveland reported slow growth and New York indicated growth remained sluggish.
Economic activity expanded more slowly in the Chicago District and slowed in the Richmond
District. Business activity in the Boston and Philadelphia Districts was characterized as mixed,
with Philadelphia adding that activity was somewhat weaker overall. Several Districts also
indicated that recent stock market volatility and increased economic uncertainty had led many
contacts to downgrade or become more cautious about their near-term outlooks. Consumer spending increased slightly in most Districts since the last survey, but non-
auto retail sales were flat or down in several Districts. Although poor weather dampened growth
in some areas, tourist activity remained solid in most Districts. The demand for services was
generally positive throughout the nation, but one region said conditions were deteriorating. Of
the five Districts reporting on transportation, three said conditions were mostly positive, while
the other two reported activity as flat or slightly below expectations. Manufacturing conditions
were mixed across the country, but the pace of activity slowed in many Districts. Residential real
estate markets remained weak overall with only a few slight improvements in some Districts.
Most Districts characterized commercial real estate and construction activity as weak or little
changed, but improvements were noted in several areas. Loan demand remained stable or
* Prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City and based on information collected on or before August 26,
2011. This document summarizes comments received from businesses and other contacts outside the Federal
Reserve and is not a commentary on the views of Federal Reserve officials.

 ii
slightly weaker, and lending standards were largely unchanged with an improvement in loan
quality. Harsh summer weather negatively affected agricultural activity, although recent rains in
several Districts provided some relief. Districts reporting on energy activity said it generally
expanded, with further growth expected. Price pressures edged lower, although input costs continued to increase in some
industries and retail prices rose in several Districts. Labor markets were generally stable,
although some Districts reported modest employment growth. Wage pressures were generally
minimal outside of some upward movement for skilled positions.
Consumer Spending and Tourism Overall consumer spending increased slightly in most Districts, but non-auto retail sales
were flat or down in some Districts. Hurricane Irene evacuations also produced widespread retail
disruptions in late August in the New York District, where activity had been close to or above
plan in July before slowing somewhat in early August. The Minneapolis and Kansas City
Districts reported moderate increases in non-auto retail sales during the survey period, and sales
in the San Francisco District were mixed but up slightly overall. Retail sales were up single-
digits from a year ago in the Cleveland and Dallas Districts, although Dallas reported no growth
in sales since the previous survey period. Retailers in the Chicago District reported strong back
to school sales, while Atlanta said growth slowed in retail sales. The Boston and Philadelphia
Districts said sales were flat to down but with sizable variation across stores, while sales mostly
weakened in the Richmond and St. Louis Districts. Sales of apparel and luxury items were
characterized as strong in several Districts. The Boston, Chicago, Kansas City, and San
Francisco Districts all noted sluggish sales of big ticket household items such as furniture and
appliances, and contacts in several Districts thought that heightened consumer anxiety was

 iii
weighing on sales. Contacts in some Districts continued to indicate profit margins were being
squeezed by rising input costs, although grocers in the Cleveland District were passing cost
increases through to customers. Most Districts reporting on auto sales noted increases in activity, despite lingering supply
disruptions for some Japanese nameplates. The Kansas City and Cleveland Districts reported
especially strong sales of fuel-efficient cars, while luxury vehicles sold well in the Minneapolis
District. High demand for used cars was reported in several Districts. The New York and
Philadelphia Districts reported somewhat softer auto sales in July, attributed in part to continued
supply disruptions, although sales firmed somewhat in August. Tight vehicle supplies were noted
in some Districts, and the San Francisco District noted ongoing shortages of Japanese
nameplates. Auto contacts in the Dallas District believed the supply issues from Japanese
manufacturers should be resolved by the end of September. Auto dealers in several Districts
were optimistic about future sales, although contacts in the Philadelphia District said uncertainty
clouded the outlook. The Cleveland District noted some easing in auto credit restrictions, and
New York said both retail and wholesale auto credit conditions were good. Tourism activity remained solid in most Districts, although poor weather affected growth
in some areas. Travel activity was reported as robust in the Atlanta District, especially for airport
traffic in South Florida. Tourism in the New York City area was also very strong prior to
Hurricane Irene, and city theaters planned to re-open the Monday morning after the hurricane.
Both business and leisure travel posted further improvement in the San Francisco District, and
tourism activity was solid overall in the Minneapolis District despite heavy rains in Montana. By
contrast, tourism activity slowed in July in the Boston District, leading hotels to increase
promotional offerings, and the Long Island and Jersey Shore areas of the New York District as

 iv
well as coastal areas of the Richmond District were heavily affected by hurricane evacuations in
late August. Hotels in several Districts were raising room rates, although the Kansas City District
noted some easing.
Nonfinancial Services Nonfinancial services activity edged higher in most Districts, although Minneapolis and
Dallas characterized growth as flat or steady, and New York said conditions deteriorated.
Richmond, St. Louis, and San Francisco reported generally solid demand for health-care
services, although Richmond noted lower occupancies at senior care facilities due to difficulties
among potential residents in selling their homes. Software and information technology firms in
the Boston District reported mixed activity since July but expected to return to previous strong
growth patterns by late 2011. The San Francisco District reported expanded sales for technology
service providers due to heightened demand for software, e-books, and mobile applications. In
contrast, an information technology contact in the Minneapolis District noted a decline in sales
as a result of reduced demand from the government and financial services sectors. In transportation services, Cleveland, Atlanta, and Dallas reported mostly positive
conditions, while activity was flat in the San Francisco District and below expectations in the
Kansas City District. Railroad shipments rose slightly in the Dallas District, with particularly
strong volume growth in metallic ores, petroleum products, and non-commercial building
products. Cleveland noted an acceleration in capital spending, mainly to replace aging equipment
and support demand growth from energy customers. Trucking firms in the Cleveland, Atlanta,
and Kansas City Districts reported a shortage of qualified drivers, and a few firms noted
concerns about higher fuel costs. Many services contacts expressed substantial uncertainty about
future business activity, with a few Districts reporting weakened outlooks for transportation.

 v
Manufacturing Manufacturing conditions were mixed across the country, but the pace of activity slowed
in many Districts. The New York, Philadelphia, and Richmond Districts reported declining
activity overall, and contacts in the Boston and Dallas Districts noted slowing demand from
European customers. Cleveland said factory production was stable, and manufacturing activity in
the Atlanta and Chicago Districts grew at a slower pace. Minneapolis, Kansas City, and San
Francisco reported slight expansions, and St. Louis said activity continued to increase and that
several manufacturers planned to open plants and expand operations in the near future. Most
manufacturing contacts were less optimistic than in the previous survey; however, future capital
spending plans were solid in a few Districts. Looking across factory sectors, auto production decreased in the Cleveland District due
to normal seasonal retooling for model changeovers, and the Chicago District said auto
production leveled off in August after a strong July. Textile manufacturers in the Richmond
District said markets have grown weaker due to declining consumer confidence. Construction-
related manufacturing was characterized as weak in the Dallas and Philadelphia Districts, and
Boston noted a cyclical decline in semiconductor demand. Philadelphia reported a decline in
food manufacturing, and the Kansas City District noted weakness at nondurable goods plants. In
contrast, commercial aircraft manufacturers in the San Francisco District reported solid
production rates due to new orders for narrow-body aircraft and a growing order backlog. A
metal fabricator in the Minneapolis District announced plans to expand a facility in northwestern
Montana. Capacity utilization in the steel industry remained at record high levels in the Chicago
District, and a tire manufacturer in the Atlanta District noted particular pressure in meeting a
recent surge in new orders due to supply chain normalization after the Japan disaster.

 vi
Real Estate and Construction Residential real estate activity remained weak overall, although a few Districts noted
some slight improvements. Contacts in the Boston, Atlanta, Minneapolis, and Dallas Districts
reported an increase in home sales over the previous year’s weak levels; however, the uptick in
the Atlanta District was concentrated mainly in Florida. The remaining Districts all reported
stable or slower sales from the previous survey period, with several citing greater economic
uncertainty as the primary cause. Both the New York and Philadelphia Districts reported that a
growing backlog of foreclosures in New Jersey continued to weigh down the housing market.
Home construction was down or stagnant in most Districts, with the exception of Minneapolis
and Kansas City. However, several Districts indicated an improvement in home remodeling
activity, and the New York, Philadelphia, and Cleveland Districts reported increased demand for
multi-family housing projects. Home prices were flat to slightly down in several Districts,
although New York said prices in many areas edged higher but remained below year-ago levels.
Contacts in the Boston District reported competitive pricing by sellers with even lower prices
negotiated by buyers, but in the Cleveland District many builders have shifted away from
discounting. Inventories were elevated or rising in the Boston, Atlanta, and Kansas City
Districts, particularly for existing homes, and demand for apartment rental space increased in the
San Francisco and Dallas Districts. Commercial real estate conditions remained weak or little changed in most Districts,
although some improvements were noted by New York, Minneapolis, and Dallas. Commercial
real estate activity was sluggish in the Boston, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Kansas City, and
San Francisco Districts. However, San Francisco noted some areas have benefited from
technology sector growth, and Boston noted investor demand for prime office buildings

 vii
remained strong. New York said office vacancy rates declined noticeably in the Buffalo and
Rochester metro areas and modestly in Manhattan and Long Island. Lower commercial rents
helped push down vacancy rates in the Kansas City District, and the Dallas District noted strong
demand for leased space in Houston due to solid energy activity. Commercial construction was
characterized as weak or limited by Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago, and Kansas City, although
Atlanta noted some strength in the healthcare sector. St. Louis described conditions as mixed,
with some improvement in education and energy-related construction, while Minneapolis
District contacts reported an increase in small retrofitting projects and rebuilding in flood-
damaged areas. The Chicago District noted continued strength in industrial construction,
particularly in the automotive sector. Credit for commercial development remained an obstacle
for small retailers in the Richmond District, although Boston said aggressive competition among
lenders led to reduced borrowing rates.
Banking and Finance Most districts cited overall loan demand as stable to slightly weaker, with the exception
of St. Louis, which reported a modest increase. Demand for business loans remained unchanged
or weakened in the New York, Chicago, Kansas City, and San Francisco Districts, but was
moderately stronger in the Philadelphia, Cleveland, and St. Louis Districts. Demand for
consumer loans increased somewhat in the St. Louis District, but was unchanged to slightly
weaker in the New York, Kansas City, and San Francisco Districts. While Kansas City reported a
decline in commercial real estate loans, St. Louis cited a modest increase. New York and
Cleveland noted increased demand for residential mortgages. Most Districts said that loan quality was generally improving and that credit standards
were largely unchanged. Cleveland reported a decline in delinquencies across all loan categories,

 viii
and Richmond and Kansas City also indicated a continued strengthening in loan quality.
However, New York indicated that delinquency rates increased on most categories of loans and
that banks tightened standards for commercial mortgages and commercial and industrial loans.
Banking contacts in several Districts also referenced concerns about the economy. The Chicago
District cited recent volatility in financial markets and reduced expectations for economic
growth, while Kansas City District contacts listed a weak economic recovery and uncertainty
about financial regulations.
Agriculture and Natural Resources Harsh summer weather strained agricultural activity in many Districts since the last
survey period. Hot, dry weather stressed crops and livestock in the Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas
City, and Dallas Districts, with poor pasture conditions hastening herd liquidations in the Kansas
City and Dallas Districts. Recent rains provided some relief to agricultural producers in the
Richmond and Atlanta Districts, but Hurricane Irene caused extensive damage to field crops not
yet harvested in North Carolina. Shrinking production estimates pushed up crop prices and the
Chicago District noted that robust ethanol production was also driving corn prices higher. Crop
and livestock sales rose in the San Francisco District, and the Dallas District reported strong beef
exports. Farmland values rose further in the Chicago and Kansas City Districts, but rising input
costs trimmed farm capital spending in the Kansas City District. Energy activity generally expanded since the last survey period, with additional gains
expected in coming months. The Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts reported an
increase in land-based oil drilling activity, and the Atlanta and Dallas Districts reported a modest
rise in off-shore drilling operations in the Gulf of Mexico. Natural gas exploration rose in the
Cleveland District, and remained steady in the Kansas City and San Francisco Districts.

 ix
Additional capital investments in oil and gas production were expected in the Cleveland, Atlanta,
and Kansas City Districts. Energy contacts in the Cleveland and Kansas City Districts noted
some new hiring, although permit delays and environmental compliance could constrain
expansion. Coal production rose in the Kansas City District, held steady in the Cleveland
District, and fell in the St. Louis District. Higher metals prices spurred mining activity in the
Minneapolis and San Francisco Districts, especially for iron ore.
Employment, Wages, and Prices Labor markets were generally steady, although some Districts reported modest
employment growth. Several Districts reported a shortage of skilled workers such as engineers,
mechanics, and software developers. Jobs in the health care industry continued to increase, and
the Cleveland, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts indicated growth in energy-related
employment. Many Districts reported an increase in auto sales and service technician positions,
and several companies in the Minneapolis District announced new manufacturing jobs. The
Atlanta District noted that many contacts were focused on productivity and efficiency increases
with existing staff, and Richmond said one firm would rather pay overtime than hire new
workers. A large staffing firm in Chicago reported a decline in billable hours for staffing and
professional services as well as fewer permanent placements, while Boston said demand for
permanent and temporary-to-permanent hiring continued to grow. A major New York City
employment agency reported unusually slow hiring activity in August but remained cautiously
optimistic about future recruitment. Most Districts reported that wage pressures were minimal,
but contacts noted some wage gains for several skilled positions as a result of heightened
demand.

 x The majority of Districts reported fewer price pressures, but input costs continued to rise
in select industries. The New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, and San Francisco Districts noted
some stabilization or decline in raw materials prices but Chicago said elevated commodity prices
continued to put pressure on costs, particularly copper and steel. Manufacturers in the Boston
District were able to pass through input price increases with little resistance, although a
semiconductor firm was one exception. The Kansas City District reported construction materials
prices as steady, excluding prices of petroleum-based products such as roofing shingles and
asphalt, which continued to rise. Retail prices were steady or rising slightly in New York,
Richmond, and Atlanta, although some Atlanta District retailers mentioned that weak sales could
prompt them to lower prices. Retailers in the Dallas District noted a slight decline in overall
prices, although increases were observed in certain high-end goods and cotton-based products.
Prices for cotton-based products, such as clothing, also increased in the San Francisco and
Cleveland Districts. Food prices climbed higher in the Cleveland and Chicago Districts, and
restaurants in the Kansas City District expected further increases in menu prices as a result of
rising food costs.

 I-1 FIRST DISTRICT – BOSTON Business contacts in the First District continue to report mixed results. Some manufacturers cite
slowing demand while others continue to enjoy strong sales, retail activity is mostly flat, tourism is up,
staffing and software and IT services firms note continued growth, and real estate markets remain
sluggish. Respondents say input cost pressures have eased somewhat since the last report. Firms are doing
little hiring. Contacts in all sectors note that the outlook is increasingly uncertain.
Retail and Tourism Year to date through early August, contacted First District retailers report generally flat sales
compared to a year earlier. Reports range from down 5 percent to up almost 4 percent. Consumers are
conservative in the purchases they are making and, in particular, are avoiding big-ticket items. Sales of
furniture and office supplies have been sluggish, while apparel and home improvement categories have
performed a bit better. One contact saw a pronounced downward sales trend in recent weeks that he
attributes to consumer concerns about the debt ceiling debate, stock market gyrations, ongoing high
unemployment, and continuing unease about the U.S. economy’s medium-term prospects. Some contacts
are hiring, but most are cautious about adding to head count and one may have layoffs after the holidays.
Retailers say that commodity price increases have moderated. Inventory levels are being positioned for an
uncertain economic environment. All respondents voice concern that the economic outlook is sluggish for
the foreseeable future; they are scaling back capital spending plans for 2012. Travel and tourism in the region continued a strong upward trend through the second quarter that
began a year earlier; as of June 2011 year-to-date activity in the hotel and visitor sector was up 7 percent
from 2010. However, since mid-July, activity has softened and slowed, leading to an increase in
promotional offers to shore up hotel bookings. The tourism industry has scaled back its 2011 forecast and
now thinks that a 5 percent increase would represent a great year. The revised forecast reflects both lower
consumer confidence and potential reductions in business travel based on an uncertain economic outlook
for the next six months.
Manufacturing and Related Services Manufacturing contacts report relatively mixed business conditions, especially compared to the
widespread favorable reports earlier this year. Some firms cite flatter and/or slower revenue growth in the
current quarter compared to the first half of the year, while others say sales growth continues to be
relatively robust. Semiconductor-related manufacturers in particular note declines in demand, although
they attribute it to standard demand cycles for their products, given the surge in purchasing they saw in
late 2010 and early 2011. A diversified manufacturer and a company in the aerospace industry also report
somewhat softening demand, which they attribute to a possible end to the post-recession sales bounce-
back as well as increased economic uncertainty making some customers less willing to stockpile
inventory. A number of firms also note a slowdown in European demand for their products. By contrast,
sales growth at pharmaceutical companies remains steady, and demand at various industrial supply
manufacturers continues to be strong. Contacts at these industrial products firms note that they have little

 I-2
lead time between orders and sales and thus they would know very quickly if demand were slowing.
Despite continued favorable conditions at some companies, nearly all manufacturing contacts voice
concern regarding the current state of economic uncertainty and more than one commented that the
country is “talking itself into a recession.” Some respondents continue to postpone hiring and/or
investment to keep costs low while others report having contingency plans in place should demand turn
down noticeably. Employment remains steady at the vast majority of contacted manufacturers. One exception is an
industrial products manufacturer with headcount up 9 percent year-to-date who plans to continue to hire
as long as demand for their products remains strong. By contrast, a semiconductor firm has eliminated
some of its temporary workforce because demand for its products is off. A small number of
manufacturers report continued difficulty finding workers for highly skilled positions. Fewer manufacturers report input price pressures and/or supply shortages than in recent rounds,
although the costs of rare earth metals continue to pose input price pressure for some firms. One firm
notes that anticipated supply disruptions from the earthquake in Japan never materialized. Most
manufacturers reporting higher raw material costs continue to be able to pass the price increases on to
their customers with little resistance. A semiconductor firm, however, notes that economic conditions
limit its ability to pass along cost increases. Healthcare costs continue to be a concern for contacted
manufacturers, although nearly all report providing merit pay increases to their employees this year. Responding manufacturers say capital spending remains more or less on plan, with the majority
of capital spending increases relative to last year going to construction and/or updating of facilities. Most
contacted firms report having excellent cash positions and being willing to invest should a good
opportunity arise. Uncertainty surrounding the economic climate, however, continues to limit their
willingness to invest and hire; they are waiting to see what happens with the economy before noticeably
changing their current operating strategy.
Software and Information Technology Services New England software and information technology contacts report that the upward trends of 2010
and early 2011 continued through the end of the second quarter. Year-over-year revenue increases,
ranging from 4 percent to 30 percent, were driven by notable increases in both software license sales and
recurring service revenues. Reports on activity since July are mixed, however, with some contacts
experiencing downticks and others posting larger-than-expected increases. Headcounts continue to rise in
line with revenue growth, although many contacts report increasing difficulty in finding qualified
software engineers, programmers, and sales personnel. As a result, some have bolstered their recruitment
efforts and one contact has added jobs overseas. Wages are steady or up slightly, with annual merit
increases generally in the 3 percent to 5 percent range. Selling prices have been left unchanged as a result
of a competitive market environment. The outlook among New England software and IT services
respondents is not appreciably different from that of 3 months ago, with most expecting growth in late
2011 and early 2012 to be in the 10 percent to 20 percent range.

 I-3
Staffing Services Nearly all New England staffing contacts report upticks in business volume through the end of
second quarter and into the third; however, many respondents lament that overall activity remains below
expectations. Revenues are flat to increasing year-over-year, with increases in the range of 5 percent to 25
percent. Labor demand continues to strengthen, albeit modestly, with notable improvements in the
manufacturing and information technology sectors. Demand for permanent and temporary-to-permanent
hiring continues to grow; indeed, two contacts report that permanent placements are up more than 20
percent relative to last year. Notwithstanding stronger demand, jobs remain difficult to fill as clients
remain fastidious in their candidate expectations. One contact notes that jobs that used to take just a few
days to fill continue to take weeks. Supply of high-end labor remains tight in the region, but there has
been no significant change since May. Bill rates and pay rates are steady. Looking forward, New England
staffing contacts are generally less upbeat than they were three and six months ago, with many expecting
to “move sideways” into 2012.
Commercial Real Estate Commercial leasing fundamentals are roughly unchanged since the last report. Office leasing
activity was stable in Boston but resulted in no significant absorption or changes in rental rates. In
Hartford, the modest momentum observed in the first half stalled as sentiment turned negative, and the
risk of a significant slowdown in leasing and sales activity in the fourth quarter is considered high.
Investor demand for prime office and apartment buildings in Greater Boston remains strong, raising
concern among some contacts that sales prices are moving too high relative to rents and occupancy. The
lending environment for commercial real estate in Boston is characterized by aggressive competition
among banks, resulting in downward pressure on mortgage rates. Looking forward, relatively weak
office-leasing demand in Boston is expected to persist in light of recently-announced layoffs at a few
large downtown employers.
Residential Real Estate States throughout New England experienced increases in home sales in July compared to last
year; however, contacts express little enthusiasm about these increases because they largely reflect
struggling sales activity following the expiration of the homebuyers’ tax credit last year rather than any
improvement in activity this year. Respondents report that activity in the housing market remains
sluggish, with potential buyers remaining apprehensive about economic conditions. The median sale price
of single-family homes and condos remained close to even with a year ago throughout much of the
region. Contacts report sellers pricing competitively in order to attract bids and buyers negotiating even
lower prices. Meanwhile, listings continue to climb in the region, but most contacts did not express
serious concern about the level of inventory reached. Outlooks for the remainder of the year appear largely pessimistic, with contacts expecting a
continuation of slow activity. Most anticipate sales for this year will not reach last year’s total and
forecast little improvement over the next one to two years.

 II-1 SECOND DISTRICT--NEW YORK Economic growth in the Second District has remained sluggish since the last report. While it
is too early to assess the full effects of Hurricane Irene, initial reports suggest widespread disruptions
and local pockets of more extreme stress from flooding and power outages. Transportation and other
infrastructure apparently sustained limited damage. Prior to the hurricane, business contacts in the
manufacturing sector noted steady to weakening activity. Retail sales were reported to be up
modestly from a year ago in recent weeks, while tourism activity has remained strong. Commercial
real estate markets have shown some signs of improvement since the last report: both office and
industrial markets have been steady to slightly stronger. The residential purchase market has been
stable, while the rental market has continued to strengthen; new home construction remains very
sluggish. Finally, bankers report reduced demand for consumer and commercial & industrial loans,
widespread increases in household delinquency rates, and some tightening in credit standards for
commercial & industrial loans and commercial mortgages.
Consumer Spending Non-auto retail sales continued to run close to or slightly ahead of plan in July, with same-
store sales on par with or slightly ahead of a year earlier. Most retailers indicate modest slowing in
the first three weeks of August, although one major mall in western New York State notes some
firming in sales activity in August, following a sluggish July. Widespread disruptions from
Hurricane Irene across much of the District are likely to adversely affect sales tallies for the full
month, but replacement of consumers’ water-damaged property is expected to boost sales in
September. Retail prices are reported to be mostly stable, though some retailers are implementing
moderate increases on prices of cotton-based merchandise to counter sharply rising costs.
Inventories are generally reported to be in good shape.

 II-2 Auto dealers in upstate New York report that sales weakened in July and were mixed in early
August. Rochester-area dealers note continued weakness in new vehicle sales in recent weeks, which
have been running somewhat below 2010 levels, reflecting continued Japan-related supply
disruptions and a lack of incentives. However, dealers in the Buffalo area report some firming in
sales activity in early August, following a sluggish July. Auto dealers in both areas indicate that used
car sales remain strong and that used car prices continue to be buoyed by strong demand and lean
inventories. Auto-industry contacts note that both retail and wholesale credit conditions are good. Consumer confidence remains mired at low levels. Siena College reports that consumer
confidence among New York State residents slipped to a 10-month low in July, with declines in both
upstate and the New York City area. The Conference Board indicates that consumer confidence
among residents of the Middle Atlantic states (NY, NJ, PA) was little changed in July and was near
the middle of its range over the past year. Tourism activity in New York City remained robust in
July and early August. Manhattan hotels report that total revenue per room was running 7 to 8
percent ahead of a year ago in July and appeared to be up roughly 10 percent in August (prior to the
hurricane). Most of the increase has come from rising room rates, as occupancy rates have been
holding relatively steady at high levels. Broadway theaters also report sturdy gains in both
attendance and revenues since the last report, despite a mid-July lull. Theaters closed for most of the
final weekend in August because of Hurricane Irene, but were due to reopen the following Monday.
Businesses in the popular vacation areas along the Long Island and New Jersey shores were widely
affected by hurricane-related evacuations.
Construction and Real Estate Residential construction and home sales have remained sluggish but generally steady since
the last report, while there has been further improvement in the rental market. Overall, prices of
existing homes have edged up in recent months in many areas but are still down slightly from a year

 II-3
ago across most of the region. Buffalo-area Realtors report that market conditions remained weak in
July and early August, with the median selling price little changed from a year earlier, but that a
recent increase in pending sales suggests some recent firming in market conditions. An authority on
New Jersey’s housing industry reports that a large overhang of distressed properties continues to
weigh down the market but that the processing of foreclosures is now resuming; this is expected to
lower reported transaction prices, on average, but increase sales activity and gradually reduce the
inventory. New construction activity is very low and largely concentrated in the multi-family (rental)
segment. A major appraisal firm reports a more-than-typical seasonal drop-off in activity in New
York City’s co-op and condo market in August; some of the recent softness is deemed to reflect
concern about the city’s financial sector. Still, the markets in Manhattan and nearby Brooklyn are
reported to be holding up relatively well, buoyed, in part, by foreign buyers paying cash. New York
City’s rental market has shown continued strength: the inventory of available units is down
moderately, and rents on new leases continue to climb and are up 5 to 8 percent over the past year. Commercial real estate markets have improved modestly since the last report. Office markets
were steady to somewhat stronger in July and the first half of August, as vacancy rates declined
noticeably in the Buffalo and Rochester metro areas and modestly in Manhattan and on Long Island.
However, vacancies continued to edge up in northern New Jersey, and Westchester and Fairfield
counties. Industrial vacancy rates edged down in most areas, while asking rents were little changed.
Northern New Jersey’s industrial vacancy rate reached its lowest level in two years; small declines
were reported on Long Island and in Westchester and Fairfield counties.
Other Business Activity Reports from business contacts point to some weakening in general business activity and
steady to weakening conditions in the labor market. A major New York City employment agency
reports that hiring activity has been unusually slow in August but remains cautiously optimistic that

 II-4
recruitment will pick up after Labor Day; financial firms, in particular, have become more hesitant
and even hiring for compliance jobs has slowed. Separately, a contact in the securities industry
reports that widespread layoffs are planned across the industry (though not entirely in New York
City) and not all the weakness is related to the current market turmoil. There continues to be some
hiring in compliance and technology, but layoffs now exceed hiring, on net. More broadly, non-manufacturing business contacts across the District report that business
conditions have deteriorated in recent weeks and indicate waning optimism about the near-term
business outlook. They continue to report steady to rising employment levels, with a majority
expecting employment to level off in the months ahead. Non-manufacturing firms report that cost
pressures remain fairly widespread, though somewhat less so than in recent months; further increases
in input costs are expected in the months ahead. Selling prices, however, remain steady. Manufacturing firms in the District report that business activity weakened moderately in July
and early August and that price pressures have continued to recede, based on the latest Empire State
Manufacturing Survey. Contacts report steady employment levels, and expect this to continue over
the next six months. Overall, though, manufacturers are now less optimistic about the near term
outlook than they have been in quite some time.
Financial Developments Bankers indicate weakening demand for consumer loans and commercial & industrial loans,
but an increase in the demand for residential mortgages, as well as for refinancing. Bankers report
tightening their standards for commercial mortgages and commercial & industrial loans but no
change in credit standards for consumer loans and residential mortgages. Respondents report a
decrease in spreads of loan rates over costs of funds for all loan categories—most notably
commercial mortgages. Respondents also indicated a decrease in the average deposit rate. Finally,
bankers report increased delinquency rates on all categories of loans except commercial & industrial

 II-5
loans. The increase in delinquency was most widespread for consumer loans where 41 percent of
respondents indicated increases in delinquency rates and only 7 percent indicated decreases.

 III - 1 THIRD DISTRICT – PHILADELPHIA Since the last Beige Book, business activity in the Third District has been more mixed
and somewhat weaker overall. Several sectors have continued to report slow, steady growth, and
a few sectors have grown faster, while others have shifted to reporting slower growth, no growth,
or declines. Manufacturing activity has declined since the last Beige Book. Year-over-year sales
fell slightly for general retailers and increased slightly for auto dealers. On balance, bank lending
has remained mostly flat. Residential real estate and construction was perhaps most impacted by
stock market volatility – showing signs of strength at July’s end, then slowing to an
unseasonably quiet August. Commercial real estate contacts have reported steady to slightly
improved market conditions in most parts of the Third District since the previous Beige Book.
Generally positive results were reported by service-sector firms. Upward price pressures from
food, energy, and other commodities have lessened somewhat. The ability to pass along costs
remains mixed, and there is little evidence of wage pressure. In response to ongoing uncertainty, Third District business contacts have slightly lowered
their expectations, with most firms projecting slow to flat growth for the remainder of the year.
Manufacturers forecast a small rise in shipments and orders during the next six months. Retailers
are hopeful for stronger sales; auto dealers are uncertain. Bankers have lowered their
expectations, as have most residential real estate contacts. Commercial real estate contacts and
service-sector firms have continued to expect slow growth; however, uncertainty has increased. Manufacturing. Since the last Beige Book, the percent of Third District manufacturers
reporting decreases in new orders and shipments has risen substantially, while the percent
reporting increases has fallen slightly. The general decline in activity was not uniform across
sectors. The makers of food products, fabricated metals, and electronic equipment reported
declining product demand. However, growing product demand was reported by printers and
publishers, by makers of instruments, and by lumber and wood products manufacturers.
Shipments increased, but orders fell for firms reporting in the primary metals and industrial
machinery sectors. Firms experiencing growth cited foreign markets, growing market share, and
product shifts as positive factors. Declining demand was attributed to sluggish residential
construction, softening domestic consumption, and the falloff in public infrastructure spending.

 III - 2
One industrial supply firm indicated steady growth overall but noted some softness in sales to
those manufacturers most sensitive to business cycles. Although the outlook among Third District manufacturers remains somewhat optimistic,
it is not as promising as was reported in the last Beige Book. Among firms contacted, two-fifths
expect increases in new orders and shipments over the next six months, while one-fourth expect
decreases. About one-fourth of the firms polled project increases in capital spending over a six-
month planning horizon – a slightly lower proportion than in the last Beige Book. Retail. Third District retailers reported that sales were generally flat to down compared
with a year earlier, although results were more varied among individual stores across the District.
Heavy promotions and markdowns have been deployed to counter what one retail manager
described as “not a great August.” Retailers are looking forward to the extended holiday
shopping season with hopeful optimism. Auto dealers in the Third District continue to report some supply disruptions for
Japanese-related vehicles and parts, leading to softer sales in July. Early reports for August were
a little better than July, and better than last year. However, one dealer reported a customer
backing out of a luxury car sale amidst the early August market volatility. Continued tight supply
favors dealers with higher pricing and fewer promotions. Uncertainty clouds dealers’ outlooks. Finance. Third District banks contacted in August indicated soft loan demand, although
some bank contacts cited strengths in small business lending, and in lending to development
projects for apartment rentals, hotels, and commercial retail. More generally, commercial and
industrial loan volumes grew, while consumer and commercial real estate loan volumes shrank.
On balance, total credit extended by banks in the Third District has been generally flat since the
last Beige Book. Most banks report improving credit quality, while credit standards have changed
little. Bank contacts report lowering their expectations for the remainder of the year – anticipating
little growth for all of 2011. Real Estate and Construction. Residential real estate activity in the Third District has
slowed slightly since the previous Beige Book. Agents reported little traffic and have revised
their plans downward for the remainder of the year. A backlog of foreclosures, the volume of
which was especially large in New Jersey, and flat to slightly falling house prices continue to

 III - 3
dampen demand for new and used homes. Some builders reported signs of strengthening from
mid-July to August, then as financial market volatility increased, a few deals unwound and
traffic ground to a halt. “You could hear the crickets for two weeks,” said one builder, reflecting
on the anemic growth even for a typically slow August. An uptick in refinances was reported;
however, little of the resulting consumer savings is expected to impact housing. Commercial and industrial real estate contacts have offered mixed reports in the Third
District since the previous Beige Book. Few reported any interruption in the normally slow
August activity due to financial market volatility. Slow, steady growth was observed with
vacancy rates generally falling, rents steady or occasionally rising, and concessions steady or
occasionally falling. Demand for residential rental properties has been generating the most new
business as reported by architecture, engineering, and property management firms. Several
contacts also noted activity finally re-emerging from the life sciences sector. The outlook
expressed by market participants is for continued slow growth in nonresidential real estate. Services. Reports from Third District service-sector firms remain generally positive, but
with greater expressions of uncertainty. A logistics firm described business as surprisingly strong
– improving since the last Beige Book and better than last year. Staffing firms noted an increase
in temporary hiring to fill permanent positions – indicating increased uncertainty among their
customers. In addition to the impact from anticipated troop reductions, defense-related firms
noted concerns stemming from the debt-ceiling agreement. While growth remains generally
steady, greater uncertainty has crept into the generally positive outlook of service-sector firms. Prices and Wages. Since the previous Beige Book, the percent of manufacturers
reporting increases in prices paid for inputs has continued to fall slightly from one-third to one-
fourth. Over the same period, the percent reporting decreases in prices received for their own
products rose slightly from one-sixth to over one-fifth. Since the last Beige Book, commodity
price pressures have lessened somewhat on retailers, service-sector firms, and builders; however,
margins remain very tight. But for a few business sectors or a few scattered rental markets, there
are scant reports of upward pressure on rents and wages.

 IV - 1 FOURTH DISTRICT – CLEVELAND The economy in the Fourth District grew at a slow pace during the past six weeks, with
many of our contacts downgrading their near-term outlooks. Manufacturers reported stable
production but a decline in new orders and backlogs. Freight transport volume trended slightly
higher. Retailers said that their sales were on or ahead of plan and new-car purchases increased.
Energy companies noted little change in output. New-home construction remains sluggish, and
inquiries made to nonresidential builders have dropped off. The demand for business credit
picked up, while consumer lending was weak. Modest increases in payrolls were mainly limited to the manufacturing and energy
sectors. Staffing-firm representatives noted moderate growth in the number of new job
openings, with vacancies concentrated in technical occupations and healthcare. Almost all
openings were for experienced workers. Wage pressures are contained. Prices for raw materials
used by manufacturers and construction materials have generally stabilized or declined slightly. Manufacturing. Production at District factories was stable during the past six weeks,
although reports indicated declines in new orders and backlogs. Many of our contacts expect
additional slowing in demand, which they attributed to uncertainty and caution on the part of
their customers. Almost all steel producers and service centers reported that the weakening in
shipping volume that began during the second quarter has continued. However, some of our
contacts are looking for a pickup in new orders due to low supply chain inventories. Steel
shipments are being driven primarily by transportation- and energy-related industries. District
auto production decreased in July on a month-over-month basis, due to normal seasonal retooling
for model changeovers. Year-over-year production also fell, but declines were limited to foreign
nameplates, as supply disruptions caused by events in Japan persist. Manufacturers remain committed to their capital spending plans for 2011, with half of
our contacts expecting to increase outlays in the upcoming months relative to prior-year levels.
Little movement was seen in capacity utilization rates. Reports on raw materials indicated that
prices have stabilized or declined slightly. Product pricing was fairly steady. Several of our
respondents expect steel prices to begin rising in the near future. Hiring continued at a modest
pace, with some manufacturers reporting difficulty in finding high-skilled workers. Wage
pressures are contained. Construction. Single-family home construction remains at a low level, with purchases
mainly in the move-up buyer categories. Contractors reported that a lack of confidence is
keeping potential buyers on the side-lines, even with mortgage interest rates at very low levels.
A few of our contacts noted that multi-family construction and remodeling now accounts for a
substantial part of their backlogs. Expectations call for little change in residential building in the
near term. List prices of new homes held steady, while builders shifted away from discounting.

 IV - 2
The upward pressure on building material prices that was seen in early summer has diminished.
Two builders reported some easing in credit restrictions for financing multi-family and spec
construction. Aggressive pricing on the part of subcontractors was widespread. One contact
reported that monies from the 2009 stimulus package earmarked for home weatherization
programs have been exhausted, which could lead to further job cutbacks in residential
construction. General contractors continue to work with lean crews. Activity in nonresidential construction has weakened slightly since our last report.
Although the number of inquiries has dropped off, several builders noted that they have recently
added to their backlogs. One contractor reported that the rising incidence of stop-work orders on
federal projects is contributing to marketplace uncertainty. Most construction was contracted
with manufacturers, energy producers, or for infrastructure projects. Looking forward, several of
our contacts remain cautiously optimistic, while others believe an industry rebound will not
occur until 2013. Building material prices were mainly steady. Little change in construction
payrolls was noted, while union negotiations led to a small increase in wages. Accounts of
subcontractors struggling to stay in business were common. Consumer Spending. Retailers reported that sales for the period from early July through
mid-August were on or ahead of plan, and that transactions increased in single-digits relative to
year-ago levels. Many of our contacts said that rising sales included necessities and
discretionary items, especially for new and innovative products. Looking ahead to the fourth
quarter, most contacts expect their sales to rise in the low- to mid-single digits on a year-over-
year basis. However, grocers we spoke with anticipate little improvement in sales volume for
the remainder of this year. We continue to hear about upward pressure on supplier prices,
although it mainly affects meat and dairy products and items produced from cotton. Retailers
attributed some of the pressure to higher costs for transportation, packaging, and certain
commodities. Grocers passed through the increases to their customers, while other retailers were
more selective in adjusting prices. Reports on profit margins were mixed. Capital outlays
remain on plan. Half of our contacts said that they are in the process of expanding the number of
their retail outlets. However, no change in payrolls is expected at existing stores. Most auto dealers reported that new-vehicle sales from early July through mid-August
were higher than the previous six-week period. On a year-over-year basis, vehicle purchases
improved for almost all of our contacts, with a few noting double-digit increases. Demand for
fuel-efficient, less-expensive cars continued to grow, although the market for smaller SUVs
remains stable. Inventories are still at low levels, especially for Japanese brands. Dealers are
cautious in their outlook due to uncertainty about the economy and the availability of vehicles
that consumers want to buy. Demand for used cars remained fairly strong; however, scarce
inventory is contributing to higher prices. We heard a few reports of some easing in credit

 IV - 3
restrictions, while the use of leasing continues to grow. Many dealers are in the process of
initiating factory-mandated programs for showroom upgrades and reimaging, and two contacts
said that they are expanding their current facilities. The number of dealers who are hiring sales
and service personnel has picked up slightly since our last report. Banking. Overall demand for business loans showed a modest improvement, with
requests coming from a broad range of industries. Reports indicated downward pressure on
interest rates for business credit. Consumer credit was driven by indirect auto lending and home
equity lines of credit. Other installment loan categories remained weak. Applications for
residential mortgages have picked up, with bankers citing falling interest rates as the reason.
Submissions were fairly mixed but leaned toward refinancing. Core deposits continued to
increase, driven by inflows from business customers. Several bankers commented that the rate
of growth in consumer deposits has weakened. Credit standards were largely unchanged.
Delinquencies declined across all loan categories. No significant changes in employment levels
were cited, and little new hiring is expected in the near-term. Energy. Conventional oil and natural gas drilling and production were stable during the
past six weeks, while activity in Marcellus and Utica shales continued to expand. Shale gas
produced in Pennsylvania grew by almost 60 percent in the first six months of 2011 relative to
the prior six-month period. Wellhead prices paid to independent producers declined slightly.
Little change in coal output is anticipated for the remainder of this year. Rising demand for coal
in overseas markets has been offset by a lessening in demand from domestic utilities and
production constraints due to increased governmental oversight in permitting and environmental
compliance. Spot prices for coal increased between 1 percent and 3 percent. Capital outlays are
on target, with moderate increases projected by oil and gas companies in the upcoming months
for drilling new wells. The cost of production equipment and materials was fairly stable;
however, prices increased for tubular products and tires. A modest rise in payrolls was reported. Transportation. Overall, freight transport volume continued on a slight upward trend,
although a few of our contacts characterized volume over the past couple of months as
inconsistent. As a result, they revised their near-term growth projections down slightly. Several
respondents have successfully increased their shipping rates as customer contracts came up for
renewal. Prices for diesel fuel have been trending lower, while maintenance costs are rising,
especially for tires. Capital outlays have accelerated during 2011 relative to prior-year levels.
Spending is mainly to replace aging transport equipment and to support demand growth from
energy customers. Hiring has been largely for driver replacement; however, we heard two
reports about carriers adding capacity. Wage pressures are emerging due to a tightening of the
driver pool.

 V-1 FIFTH DISTRICT–RICHMOND Overview. Economic activity in the Fifth District slowed since our last report. Manufacturing
activity pulled back markedly in August, following a sluggish July, and retail sales weakened. Residential
construction and housing sales declined further, while commercial real estate activity was mixed. Banking
activity was also mixed, with some commercial lenders citing some improvement but mortgage bankers
reporting continued weakness. In contrast, activity at non-retail services firms edged up. After earlier
improvements, coastal hoteliers watched their guests flee as Hurricane Irene approached. However, inland
hotel managers reported no change in their solid bookings. Labor markets were mixed; while temp
services reported some improvement, employment remained nearly flat at manufacturing establishments.
Price pressures in the District edged higher over the last month. Manufacturing prices paid and received
accelerated, while prices in the service sector picked up slightly. Finally, recent precipitation improved
agricultural conditions in most parts of the District, although Hurricane Irene damaged coastal crops. Manufacturing. District manufacturing activity contracted in August after stalling in July. A
producer of modular homes stated that “business is terrible,” citing this as the worst year in his 40 years in
the business. Several textile manufacturers mentioned that markets for their products had grown
considerably weaker since our last report, which they attributed in part to declining confidence among
customers. Similarly, a producer of packaging film mentioned that his firm had cut production over the
last three months. Moreover, a manufacturer of bottled and canned soft drinks noted sales were down
sharply from last year, producing lower-than-normal sales for this time of year. Low-end cabinet makers
reported that their firms continued to struggle with below-average profits. In contrast, high-end cabinet
manufacturers affirmed that sales continued to improve, albeit at a slower rate than in the spring. The
District manufacturing survey for August revealed that prices for both raw materials and finished goods
grew at a somewhat quicker pace than a month ago. Retail. Retail sales mostly weakened in late July through August. A wide range of retailers
indicated that sales had declined in recent weeks as shoppers searched for bargains, while polled store
managers at general merchandise stores mostly reported little change in revenues. A manager of a chain
of hardware stores noted a decline in sales in recent months. Also, a contact told us that a Baltimore
jeweler had little business over the last month other than engagement rings. A grocery executive reported
higher revenues, while also indicating that his input prices had risen, putting pressure on margins. The
pace of retail price increases stepped up from a month ago, according to our most recent survey. Services. Non-retail services firms saw an uptick in revenues in recent weeks, according to most
contacts. Stronger consumer demand for services was reported in telecommunications and healthcare, and
a food distributor in the Baltimore area noted increased demand from locally owned restaurants and
delicatessens. A financial data services firm reported improving demand from restaurants and retailers in

 V-2
Maryland and Virginia, although other business services providers noted negative ripple effects from a
slower economy. In contrast, an executive at a Virginia linen service stated that low bookings at hotels
had reduced demand. Contacts at senior care facilities in Maryland and North Carolina remarked that
expected new residents had postponed their move-in date while their homes remained on the market.
Service sector prices grew at a slightly faster pace, according to our latest monthly survey. Finance. Lending activity was mixed since our last assessment. A banker in North Carolina
stated that loan volume was “pretty good” in recent months, but added that most of the activity was
market share gains rather than a piece of a growing market. Indeed, several bankers noted an increase in
calls from businesses that were looking for new banking relationships, but few were ready to make a loan
application. An official at a large bank in the District noted some improvement in loans for capital
spending, but added that most was limited to replacing worn out capital. A commercial banker in
Richmond cited recent cutbacks in loan demand from several manufacturers. A banker in rural Virginia
described his loan demand as “extremely flat,” with modest gains on the commercial side offset by weak
demand on the consumer side. Several bankers noted weaker-than-expected mortgage demand over the
last month. Most contacts stated that loan quality continued to improve, but several bankers indicated that
they eased lending terms in order to compete for quality borrowers. Real Estate. Real estate activity weakened over the last four to six weeks. Several Realtors
reported that sales had dropped considerably in recent months and that their markets were less active than
a year ago. A Realtor in eastern Maryland indicated that home sales as well as average home prices were
down notably from earlier in the year. A West Virginia Realtor said potential buyers were calling and
looking for bargains, but that there were few actual sales. He mentioned that some sellers were starting to
reduce prices significantly. Similarly, an agent in central Virginia noted that asking prices continued to
fall. Most Realtors said that the high-end market was suffering, which they attributed to devalued
portfolios of the wealthy, as well as uncertainty about employment and job stability. In contrast, a Realtor
in the D.C. area reported that properties in the $900 thousand to $1.5 million price range moved quickly
over the last month. He added that low interest rates and lean inventory, which reached its lowest level
since February 2006, should help improve area sales in the fall. Commercial real estate activity since our last report was mixed across most segments of the
market. Virtually all contacts described market conditions as remaining weak, in terms of both leasing
volumes and rental rates. While a Realtor in South Carolina reported that activity had picked up over the
last few months, gains were mostly due to consolidations and renewals that often occurred at reduced
lease rates. A Realtor in North Carolina noted that leasing incentives were still being offered aggressively
in local markets. An agent in the D.C. area said that renewals often required owners to offer significant
improvement packages. In contrast, a real estate agent in West Virginia remarked that further softening of
lease rates was constrained by the limited amount of vacant space in the area. Most retail leasing activity

 V-3
in the District was limited to national chains, according to several contacts, in part because financing
remained an obstacle for small retailers. Contacts generally noted that greater uncertainty about the
market and the economy had pushed clients to prefer leasing over buying. One contact stated that sales to
leases had recently fallen from a typical one-to-four ratio to one-to-fifteen. Labor Markets. Reports on Fifth District labor market activity were mixed in August. Several
employment agencies reported somewhat stronger demand for temporary help in recent weeks,
particularly in the healthcare and automotive industries. The branch manager of a temp agency in North
Carolina stated that manufacturers had openings for skilled positions, but they had difficulty finding
machine operators with at least one year of experience. Likewise, a contact from South Carolina reported
that three large manufacturers in the area were trying to hire, but could not find qualified candidates. In
contrast, an executive from the D.C. area said that a major corporation had initiated a hiring and
advertising freeze. Also, a banker indicated that some of his clients said that they would rather pay
workers overtime than hire new workers, due in large part to the recent environment of heightened
uncertainty. According to our latest survey, job losses in the service sector were somewhat more
widespread than in our last report; wages in the retail sector weakened on average, while average wage
growth slowed at services firms. Survey respondents from most manufacturing industries indicated that
hiring inched up over the last month, while the average workweek declined and wage growth slowed. Tourism. Tourism generally strengthened over the last month, although contacts along the
Atlantic coast lost significant end-of-summer business as Hurricane Irene came ashore one week before
Labor Day weekend. Local evacuation orders in areas along the coast of North Carolina resulted in
cancellations and shortened stays for the end of August. In addition, an hotelier in Virginia Beach
reported several cancellations and early check-outs, as guests left the area ahead of the storm. Inland,
however, hotel managers reported solid bookings, and several were experiencing a rush of hurricane
evacuees. In the weeks prior to the hurricane, bookings had been strong, although some beach resorts
used incentives to bolster reservations. According to a local contact, hotels in the D.C. area discounted
room rates to boost reservations over the summer, which increased volume but held down margins. Agriculture. Scattered precipitation over the last two months promoted crop growth in many
sections of the District, but more recently crops along the coast were damaged by Hurricane Irene. Rain in
early August aided late summer peaches in West Virginia and soybean harvests in Virginia. Virginia
growers were also busy cutting hay and preparing for the corn harvest and the flue-tobacco harvest was in
full swing. Ninety-six percent of the corn crop in South Carolina had matured and was forty percent
harvested up to the hurricane. However, post-hurricane inspections by state officials in North Carolina
revealed widespread damage to field crops, poultry and other agricultural businesses. Moreover,
agricultural agents in that state reported damage to greenhouses, grain storage facilities and aquaculture
operations. Fortunately, cotton bolls had not been stripped from their plants by high winds, and tobacco

 V-4
farmers may have been saved by rushing their crops to curing barns before the storm stuck, according to
the agricultural agents.

 VI-1 SIXTH DISTRICT – ATLANTA Summary. Sixth District business contacts indicated that economic activity continued to
expand at a very subdued pace in July and August. Retail sales grew more slowly than during the
previous reporting period, although tourism activity remained solid. Existing home sales
improved in Florida, but were weak elsewhere in the District. New home sales and construction
were soft and downward pressure on prices persisted for both existing and new homes.
Contractors reported low levels of commercial development. Manufacturing contacts indicated
that the level of production and new orders increased, but at a slower pace than experienced
earlier in the year. Bankers noted ongoing weakness in loan demand as both consumers and
businesses were restrained in their borrowing activity. Most businesses continued to be cautious
regarding adding permanent staff, with several indicating that they had chosen to hire temporary
or contract workers to fill immediate labor needs. Contacts reported that on average, sales prices
were up slightly from a year ago, although some retailers mentioned that weak sales were
prompting them to lower prices. Energy contacts indicated plans to increase oil production
capacity. Consumer Spending and Tourism. Most District merchants reported that retail sales
growth had slowed in July and August. Businesses noted a drop in sales and traffic compared
with a year ago. The majority of contacts stated that they were keeping inventory levels lean and
had no plans to increase supply in the near term. The outlook among most retailers was less
optimistic than earlier in the year, although some contacts noted that the costs of cotton-based
inputs for the spring selling season will not be as high as initially feared. Tourism activity remained robust in the District. Hospitality industry reports cited
increases in occupancy and room rates. Airport traffic was up, particularly in South Florida,
which serves as a point of entry for cruise line travel as well as international travel from Latin
America. Although some companies noted that the softer economic climate has led to a decline
in advance bookings from business travelers, the overall outlook among contacts remained
strong for the coming months. Real Estate and Construction. The majority of District residential brokers reported that
sales were slightly ahead of last year’s weak levels. Most of the increase came from Florida
contacts, although several brokers there stated that a decline in bank-owned homes available to
purchase had held sales back somewhat. Outside Florida, brokers found that sales were similar to
last year’s levels. The majority of brokers indicated that housing inventories remained elevated.
Brokers continued to note downward pressure on home prices with most indicating that prices

 VI-2
were flat to slightly down compared with a year ago. The outlook weakened over the reporting
period with most contacts anticipating sales growth to be down slightly over the next several
months. District builders reported that new home sales and construction activity were similar to
year earlier levels. New home inventory levels declined somewhat, but builders noted downward
pressure on new home prices nonetheless. Residential contractors indicated that home
improvement construction improved from earlier in the year. Compared with the June report,
builders’ outlook weakened somewhat with the majority of contacts expecting new home sales
growth to be flat over the next several months and construction to be similar to last year’s weak
levels. Commercial contractors signaled that nonresidential construction was slow, although
activity in the healthcare sector continued to be positive. Contacts reported aggressive bidding
by contractors and subcontractors. On the leasing side, firms noted that the absorption of space
had slowed somewhat in recent weeks. Overall, the outlook for construction and leasing activity
weakened somewhat from previous months. Manufacturing and Transportation. Manufacturers indicated that the level of new
orders and production increased in mid-July and August, but at a slower pace than earlier this
year. A leading auto dealer and many parts suppliers felt that the impact of supply disruptions
from Japan had ended. A large tire manufacturer noted particular pressure in meeting a recent
surge in orders as the supply chain normalized from the disaster in Japan. Many manufacturers
reported increased investment in technology equipment in efforts to increase efficiency. Railway firms cited increased capital expenditures, above-trend plans to hire, and
strengthening exports – particularly coal. Trucking contacts expressed continued labor supply
issues and elevated fuel costs, and have also projected demand for the remainder of the year to be
somewhat softer than previously anticipated. Banking and Finance. Bankers noted ongoing weakness in loan demand as both
consumers and businesses were restrained in borrowing activity. Credit standards at banks and
credit unions were little-changed and some firms, such as newer businesses or those related to
real estate, reported difficulty obtaining loans. Contacts at large companies indicated they did not
have many issues with credit availability. Many mentioned self-funding capital projects through
the use of cash reserves or retained earnings. Some businesses signaled that they did not need
additional credit, but had access to funds while others with financial issues struggled to get bank
credit.

 VI-3 Employment and Prices. Most businesses reported muted hiring activity. Many held the
view that sales are the key factor in determining labor demand, and uncertainty about future sales
seems to be exacerbating firms’ unwillingness to commit to full-time employees. Hence,
companies continued to hire temporary workers and contractors and are delaying longer-term
projects. Many noted focusing on efficiency and productivity increases with existing staff to
meet current or any seasonal increase in demand. Wage increases were reportedly subdued, with
many business contacts opting for cash bonuses and restoration of benefits over annual salary
increases. Pricing information was mixed. Contacts reported that on average, sales prices were up
slightly from a year ago, although some retailers mentioned that weak sales were prompting
them to lower prices. Fewer manufacturers reported higher input prices than in previous months.
Firms noted that they continued to face cost pressures, particularly from high materials and
freight costs. Natural Resources and Agriculture. The number of oil and gas rigs operating in the
Gulf of Mexico has continued its gradual ascent in recent months. However, the current rig
count is only about two-thirds of the number of offshore rigs in operation before the spring
2010 Gulf oil spill. Despite the recent decline in oil prices, contacts in the energy equipment
fabrication business reported ongoing backlogs in orders for pipelines, supply boats, and drilling
equipment. Energy producers are moving forward with plans to invest in increased oil
production capacity. While most of the District continued to experience varying degrees of drought conditions,
recent rains have provided relief to some of the region’s stressed pastures and crops. Cotton
prices were up compared with last year but have fallen from record highs. Peanut producers
expect prices to increase as supply from areas outside of the District becomes constrained as a
result of adverse weather.

 VII-1 SEVENTH DISTRICT—CHICAGO Summary. Economic activity in the Seventh District expanded more slowly in July and
August. Contacts expressed concern about the economic outlook, noting lower business and
consumer confidence. Both consumer and business spending were little changed over the reporting
period. Manufacturing production expanded at a slower pace, while construction decreased. Credit
conditions tightened moderately. There was further pass-through of elevated commodity prices to
prices downstream. Expectations for the corn and soybean harvests were trimmed due to hot and
dry weather in most of the District. Consumer spending. Consumer spending was little changed on balance from the previous
reporting period. Retailers reported the back-to-school shopping season got off to a strong start.
Consumers responded more than expected to the increase in early back-to-school promotions on
items such as apparel, and expanded their purchases even on non-back-to-school items. Spending on
luxury goods also increased in July, but slowed noticeably in early August. Contacts noted that
rising uncertainty about the economic outlook and stock market volatility had led to a decline in
consumer confidence, pointing to lower customer traffic in August. Vehicle sales edged up in July
before leveling off in August. A contact in the auto industry reported that many consumers were
still waiting for Japanese products to become more readily available before making a purchase
decision. Spending on other consumer durables like furniture and appliances remained weak. Business spending. Business spending continued at a slow, but steady, pace in July and
August. Some manufacturers reported proceeding as planned with capital expenditures and labor
force additions to alleviate pressures on capacity. In contrast, contacts mentioned that lower
expectations for farm income had slowed purchases of farm equipment. Several contacts also noted
closely watching inventory and staffing levels in the event that increases in uncertainty in the
economic outlook and financial market volatility took a toll on demand. A retail contact indicated
that holiday inventories will likely be higher this year because retailers had been very optimistic at
the time the orders were made. Labor market conditions weakened, with hiring still slow and
unemployment edging up in the District. In addition, a large staffing firm reported a decline in
billable hours for staffing and professional services as well as fewer permanent placements. Construction/real estate. Construction activity softened in July and August. Residential
real estate conditions remained weak. There was little new single-family home construction during
the reporting period. Builder showroom traffic declined, as contacts noted an inability to maintain

 VII-2
the slight momentum they had seen early in the summer sales season. Nonresidential construction
also fell overall. Public construction work slowed some and commercial construction remained low.
In contrast, contacts noted continued strength in demand for industrial construction, particularly
from the automotive sector, and a slight uptick in demand from the retail sector. Commercial real
estate conditions were little changed, with vacancy rates steady and downward pressure on rents. Manufacturing. Manufacturing production appeared to have settled down to a slower pace
of expansion in August after experiencing some volatility in output during July. Demand for heavy
equipment moderated from its robust pace during the first half of the year. However, contacts noted
as reasons for its expected continued strength robust activity in the energy and mining sectors,
pending regulatory emissions requirements, low dealer inventories, a lack of used equipment, and
an aging rental fleet. Auto production increased in July before leveling off in August, as inventories
returned to more comfortable levels. District automakers also reported no change in production
plans, despite concerns about the recently slower gains in sales. Capacity utilization in the steel
industry remained at a record high level, with order books solid and steel service center inventories
still tight. Manufacturers of industrial metals cited a significant softening in orders for near-term
delivery, but a pick-up in recent weeks in higher volume, longer-lead time orders. In contrast,
shipments of household appliances and construction materials continued to decline. Banking/finance. Credit conditions tightened moderately over the course of the reporting
period. Volatility in financial markets increased dramatically in early August. Contacts cited S&P’s
downgrade of the U.S. credit rating, increased concerns about a European sovereign debt default,
and reduced expectations for growth in the second half of the year as reasons for the increase in
volatility. Corporate funding costs moved higher as a flight to quality caused credit spreads to
increase. Business loan demand fell, with bank contacts indicating that heightened uncertainty had
led many customers to adopt a “wait-and-see” attitude. Private equity investment also slowed. On
the supply side, the availability of commercial and industrial credit continued to improve both for
large and small borrowers, with stiff competition for the highest quality customers. Some traditional
real estate lenders were reportedly moving into the commercial and industrial market, increasing
competition and further lowering the cost of capital for these borrowers. That said, contacts
expressed concern that recently announced layoffs at several large commercial banks and declining
bank stock prices do not bode well for future credit availability. Prices/costs. Elevated commodity prices continued to put pressure on costs in July and
August. While prices for industrial metals like copper and steel eased some, they are still elevated.

 VII-3
In addition, several manufacturers reported extended material lead times, particularly for specialty
metals. Energy prices also moved lower, but contacts indicated that these lower prices have not yet
been reflected in reduced fuel surcharges. In contrast, food prices continued to rise. Manufacturers
and retailers both indicated a high rate of pass-through to downstream prices. Wage pressures
remained moderate, but a few contacts noted that wages were starting to increase. Agriculture. Corn and soybean crop conditions declined markedly in the primary
production areas of the District due to hot temperatures and a lack of precipitation during July and
August. Reports that lower quality corn was being used to produce biofuel despite its higher
production costs were indicative of just how low stocks have fallen. Cash prices for corn, soybeans,
and wheat rose during the reporting period. Ethanol plants were pushing up the bidding for corn to
be used in fall production. Hot weather stressed animals, lowering the output of meat and dairy
products. Hog prices set nominal records, while milk and cattle prices moved up as well. Sale prices
for farmland continued to move higher.

 VIII-1 Eighth District — St. Louis
Summary The economy of the Eighth District has continued to grow at a modest pace since the previous
report. Manufacturing activity has continued its increase since the previous report, and activity in the
services sector also has increased. Retail sales in July and early August declined slightly over year-earlier
levels, and auto sales increased over the same period. Residential real estate market activity has continued
to decline. Commercial real estate market conditions were weak, while industrial real estate activity has
increased in many areas of the District. Overall lending at a sample of large District banks increased
modestly during the three-month period ending in July.
Consumer Spending Contacts reported that retail sales in July and early August were down slightly, on average, over
year-earlier levels. About 29 percent of the retailers saw increases in sales, while half saw decreases and
21 percent saw no changes. Roughly 48 percent of the retailers reported that sales levels were below their
expectations, 43 percent reported that sales met expectations, and 9 percent reported that sales were above
expectations. About 29 percent of the retailers reported that their inventories were too high, while 17
percent reported that their inventories were too low. The sales outlook for September and October was
mixed: About 42 percent of the retailers expect sales to increase over 2010 levels, while 29 percent expect
sales to decrease and 29 percent expect sales to be similar to those of last year. Car dealers in the District reported that sales in July and early August were up, on average,
compared with last year’s sales. About 62 percent of the car dealers surveyed saw increases in sales,
while 21 percent saw decreases and 17 percent saw no changes. About 29 percent of the car dealers noted
that used car sales had increased relative to new car sales, while 21 percent reported the opposite. Also,
about 17 percent of contacts reported an increase in sales of low-end vehicles relative to high-end
vehicles, while 4 percent reported the opposite. About 83 percent of the car dealers surveyed reported that
their inventories were below desired levels, while 4 percent reported that their inventories were too high.
The sales outlook for September and October was mostly optimistic: About 67 percent of the car dealers

 VIII-2
expect sales to increase over 2010 levels.
Manufacturing and Other Business Activity Manufacturing activity has continued to increase since our previous report. Several manufacturers
reported plans to open plants and expand operations in the near future, while a smaller number of contacts
reported plans to close plants or reduce operations. Firms in the heating, ventilation, and air conditioning;
art goods; packaging; bioscience; power hand tools; and sanitary paper products manufacturing industries
reported plans to expand operations and hire new workers. In contrast, firms in the appliance and burial
casket manufacturing industries announced plans to close plants and lay off employees. Activity in the District’s services sector has continued to increase since our previous report. Firms
in scientific research, business support, health care, aviation, and automotive repair and maintenance
services announced plans to expand operations and hire new workers. In contrast, a contact in the parking
garage services industry reported plans to decrease operations in the District and lay off employees.
Real Estate and Construction Home sales continued to decline throughout most of the Eighth District. Compared with the same
period in 2010, July 2011 year-to-date home sales were down 8 percent in Memphis, 13 percent in
St. Louis, 14 percent in Louisville, and 15 percent in Little Rock. Residential construction also continued
to decrease throughout the District. July 2011 year-to-date single-family housing permits decreased in the
majority of the District metro areas compared with the same period in 2010. Permits decreased 18 percent
in Memphis, 21 percent in Louisville, 26 percent in Little Rock, and 28 percent in St. Louis. Commercial real estate market conditions were generally weak, while industrial real estate
activity increased in many areas of the District. Compared with the first quarter of 2011, second-quarter
2011 suburban office vacancy rates increased in St. Louis and Louisville but decreased in Little Rock and
Memphis. The downtown office vacancy rates increased in Little Rock, Memphis, and St. Louis but
decreased in Louisville. During the same period, industrial vacancy rates decreased in all the major metro
areas except St. Louis, where rates increased. Industrial and commercial construction activity has been
mixed across the District, with some areas noting growth in industrial construction. A contact in south-

 VIII-3
central Kentucky noted several new retail-related construction projects, while contacts in Louisville
reported very slow speculative construction activity. A contact in southern Indiana reported that while
major commercial construction remains very slow, energy as well as industrial construction is expanding.
Contacts in St. Louis reported that industrial and commercial construction projects remain scarce, while
contacts in western Illinois noted major education-related construction projects.
Banking and Finance A survey of senior loan officers at a sample of large District banks indicated a modest increase in
overall lending activity during the three-month period ending in July. Credit standards for commercial
and industrial loans remained unchanged, while demand for these loans ranged from about the same to
moderately stronger. Credit standards for commercial real estate loans were also unchanged, while
demand for these loans ranged from about the same to moderately stronger. Meanwhile, credit standards
for consumer loans were unchanged, while demand for these loans ranged from unchanged to moderately
stronger. Credit standards for residential mortgage loans ranged from unchanged to moderately stronger,
while demand for these loans was mixed, ranging from moderately weaker to moderately stronger.
Agriculture and Natural Resources The fraction of pastures in fair or better condition has declined in most District states except
Mississippi since the previous report. Crop production has been mixed in the District. Corn, cotton, and
sorghum production increased from 2010 to 2011, while rice and soybean production fell by at least 5.7
percent. The fraction of corn, sorghum, and soybean crops rated as fair or better has fallen, while the
fraction of cotton and rice crops similarly rated has risen since the previous report. Year-to-date coal
production at the end of July for the Eighth District was 4 percent higher in 2011 compared with the same
period in 2010. Meanwhile, monthly production for July 2011 was 7.8 percent lower than July 2010.

 IX-1 NINTH DISTRICT--MINNEAPOLIS
The Ninth District economy has grown slightly since the last report. Increased activity was
noted in consumer spending, tourism, residential and commercial construction, residential
real estate, manufacturing, energy and mining. Crop reports were mostly down from last
year, but several District agricultural prices have risen recently. Activity in commercial real
estate and professional services was flat overall. Reports from labor markets include a mix
of layoffs and new hiring, while wage increases remain moderate. Price increases were
generally modest.
Consumer Spending and Tourism
Consumer spending increased moderately. A major Minneapolis-based retailer reported
that same-store sales in July increased over 4 percent compared with a year earlier. Two
Minnesota restaurant and bar chains reported that recent sales were up modestly from last
year. A North Dakota mall manager reported that sales and traffic were steadily up during
July and August compared with a year ago. After a relatively soft July, sales and traffic
picked up by mid-August at a South Dakota mall. Bank directors noted that luxury goods
showed signs of strength, such as sales of jewelry and high-end vehicles. Minnesota auto dealers were profitable, with recent sales up from last year but
still down substantially from 2006, according to an auto dealers association
representative. Two auto dealers in Montana reported recent gains in sales from a year
ago, but a third dealer described sales as dismal. Tourism activity was solid in July and August. While early summer rains and high
river levels hampered fishing and other outdoor activities in Montana, overall tourism
picked up in July. Tourism businesses in northwestern Wisconsin were busy during July and
August, according to an official. Activity was up about 5 percent compared with last year in
the Upper Peninsula of Michigan; hotels were able to raise prices without losing volume.
Construction and Real Estate
Commercial construction activity has increased slightly since the last report. Respondents
to a mid-August Minneapolis Fed ad hoc survey reported an increase in revenues,
primarily due to a number of small commercial retrofitting projects in the Minneapolis-
St. Paul area. Rebuilding in flood-damaged areas was also mentioned. However, the
value of commercial building permits in the Sioux Falls, S.D., area was down slightly in
July from July 2010. Residential construction increased from last year. The value of

 IX-2
residential building permits in July increased significantly from the same period a year
earlier in both the Sioux Falls and Minneapolis-St. Paul areas. Commercial real estate markets were flat. Commercial real estate respondents to
the Minneapolis Fed’s ad hoc survey noted flat revenues and profits over the past three
months. Comments from Minneapolis-St. Paul area contacts include the following:
“There is very little activity in the leasing, sales and land development arena.” “The
market is full of fence sitters because of general uncertainty about the economy.”
Residential real estate markets grew. Home sales in July were up significantly from the
same period a year ago in the Minneapolis-St. Paul and Fargo, N.D., markets. However,
July pending sales of homes in the Sioux Falls area decreased from July 2010.
Services
On balance, professional business services firms reported flat activity over the past three
months. A third of services firms that responded to the ad hoc survey saw increased sales,
while a third saw decreased sales. Respondents noted that profits were also flat, but they
expect increased activity over the next three months. An information technology
company noted that July sales were down due to reduced demand from the government
and financial services areas.
Manufacturing
Manufacturing activity increased slightly. A July survey of purchasing managers by
Creighton University (Omaha, Neb.) showed that manufacturing activity increased in
Minnesota and South Dakota, but declined slightly in North Dakota. A metal fabricator
announced plans to expand a facility in northwestern Montana. Nearly three-quarters of
manufacturing respondents to the Minneapolis Fed’s ad hoc survey indicated that their
sales increased in the past three months, and 60 percent expect them to increase in the
next three months.
Energy and Mining
Activity in the energy and mining sectors continued at strong levels since the last report.
Late-August oil exploration activity increased from mid-July. Iron ore shipments from
District mines increased 18 percent in July from a year earlier, according to a Great Lakes
shipping organization. Activity at Montana mines remains strong, driven by high metals
prices, according to contacts.
Agriculture

 IX-3
Ninth District agricultural production is expected to decrease from last year, while prices
remain strong. Montana and North Dakota durum wheat production estimates for 2011
were down a combined 57 percent from 2010, according to the U.S. Department of
Agriculture. Spring wheat and soybean production estimates for District states were down
18 percent and 10 percent, respectively. In contrast, District corn production estimates
increased about 5 percent over last year. Prices for many District agricultural
commodities increased since the last report, including corn, soybeans, wheat, dairy, cattle
and hogs; poultry prices decreased recently.
Employment, Wages and Prices
Reports from labor markets include a mix of layoffs and new hiring. During a 20-day
Minnesota government shutdown in July, 22,000 government employees were out of
work. By delaying state funding and inspections, the shutdown also idled many
construction projects across Minnesota. A bank recently announced plans to cut nearly
150 employees at its brokerage unit in Minneapolis. However, during July, Minnesota
gained 8,200 private sector jobs. Minnesota auto dealers have started to hire more sales
staff. About 11,000 new jobs related to oil drilling are expected in North Dakota,
according to an announcement by a firm with operations there. According to the ad hoc
survey, 19 percent of respondents expect to increase employment over the next three
months, while 10 percent expect to decrease employment. A new fabrication plant in
Montana will lead to 100 more jobs, and a sporting goods manufacturer in Minnesota
announced plans to add 100 jobs over the next two years. Wage increases remained moderate, although some contentious contract
negotiations were reported. For example, a sugar beet refining company locked out 1,300
workers beginning Aug. 1. Overall price increases were modest. A July Augustana College survey of Sioux
Falls businesses indicated little change in prices received for their products and services.
Except for gold, a number of metal prices have decreased since the last report, although
they remain well above year-earlier levels. Diesel fuel and gasoline prices were still
nearly a dollar per gallon higher than a year ago, but their rate of increase has slowed.
Input costs increased over the past three months, according to 46 percent of the ad hoc
survey respondents; only 9 percent indicated decreases.

 X-1 TENTH DISTRICT - KANSAS CITY The Tenth District economy expanded modestly in late July and early August. Consumer
spending edged up with solid back-to-school shopping and stronger than expected auto sales.
Led by durable goods production, District manufacturing activity grew slightly, with
expectations for stronger activity over the coming months. Despite solid multi-family building
activity, residential and commercial construction remained weak. District drilling activity
expanded further in July and August with expectations of a seasonal rise in energy prices
heading into the winter. Rising input costs and extreme weather trimmed farm profits, and farm
capital spending slowed. District bankers reported further improvements in loan quality amid
weaker loan demand, while a flight-to-quality boosted bank deposits. Inflationary pressures
softened in the District as fewer retailers and manufacturers expected to raise prices in coming
months. Wage pressures were confined to high-skilled positions, despite District unemployment
rates well below national levels. Consumer Spending. Consumer spending rose modestly in late July and early August
and was expected to remain solid in the months ahead. District retailers reported higher than
expected sales and were somewhat optimistic about future business activity. Apparel and
accessory items sold well during the back-to-school shopping season, but demand remained
sluggish for large-ticket household items and appliances. Auto dealers reported strong sales,
especially for new and used economy cars. Auto sales were expected to increase with the
introduction of the new model year, and some dealerships were hiring salespeople and service
technicians. Restaurants remained busy as total sales increased despite smaller average check
amounts. After improving during the last survey period, travel and tourism activity generally
held steady through the summer vacation season. District hotel owners reported increased
occupancy at slightly lower average room rates. Manufacturing and Other Business Activity. Manufacturing and high-tech service
activity expanded slightly during the survey period, while transportation activity edged down.
Manufacturing activity expanded at durable goods factories, particularly those producing
machinery and electronic products, offsetting weakness at non-durable goods plants. The volume
of new orders dipped in July, rebounded in August, and was expected to remain solid during the
next six months. Shipment volumes held relatively steady, and order backlogs improved with a

 X-2
slight drop in finished goods inventories. With increased activity, durable goods manufacturers
hired additional workers, while non-durable goods factories reduced worker hours. After
softening earlier in the summer, capital spending was expected to strengthen in coming months.
The high-tech industry reported a modest increase in sales, but contacts were concerned that
economic uncertainty could dampen demand. Following steady growth during the last few
months, activity in the transportation sector dipped below expectations, and firms remained
concerned about high fuel costs and a shortage of qualified drivers. Real Estate and Construction. Residential and commercial real estate activity remained
weak in late July and early August. Increased buyer traffic and declining home prices did not
spur significantly more residential sales, and existing home inventories rose further. Several real
estate contacts thought that economic uncertainty was limiting potential home buyer purchases
despite low mortgage rates and reduced home prices. Residential mortgage lenders reported
fewer loans for home purchases but an increase in loan refinancing activity. With more people
staying in their current homes, construction supply firms noted solid sales for remodeling
projects. After an early summer lull, some residential builders reported an uptick in building
starts. With the exception of multi-family building projects, new commercial construction was
very limited. Commercial real estate prices declined with weaker sales. Yet, lower commercial
rents helped trim vacancy rates at commercial properties. District contacts expected commercial
prices, rents and vacancy rates to hold steady in coming months. Developers reported little
change in access to credit. Banking. In the recent survey period, bankers reported further improvements in loan
quality and increased deposits amid somewhat weaker loan demand. Compared to a year ago,
loan quality improved with lower delinquency rates, and bankers expected further improvements
during the next six months. Overall loan demand decreased slightly as demand for commercial
real estate loans declined, while demand for commercial and industrial loans, residential real
estate loans, and consumer installment loans held steady. Credit standards remained largely
unchanged in all major loan categories. Deposits increased for the fifth straight survey with a few
bankers noting that a flight-to-quality supported increased deposits. Bankers cited a weak and
uncertain economic recovery and financial regulation as factors shaping expectations for the rest
of the year.

 X-3 Agriculture. Extreme weather and rising input costs dampened farm income
expectations since the last survey period. Drought continued to stress crops in Kansas and
accelerated feedlot placements in Oklahoma due to poor pasture conditions. In contrast, most of
the corn and soybean crops in Nebraska were in good or better condition with isolated reports of
storm damage from high winds and hail. Farm capital spending waned as producers paid higher
prices for production inputs such as fuel, fertilizer, and feed. Rising input costs strained profit
margins, despite a modest rise in commodity prices. Loan repayment rates eased with weaker
farm income. Farmland values rose further, but the pace of appreciation slowed. Energy. Energy activity expanded further in late July and early August, and additional
gains were expected in the coming months. The number of active drilling rigs in the District rose
solidly as additional oil rigs in Oklahoma and New Mexico more than offset a slight decline in
Wyoming. Wyoming producers noted that fewer drilling permits were being issued in the
Powder River Basin, and the approval process for additional permits was taking longer. Several
contacts reported that future drilling activity could be constrained due to a lack of qualified labor,
equipment and supplies, and to a lesser degree, availability of financing. Some firms were
offering higher wages to retain and recruit engineers and skilled field operators. Crude oil prices
were expected to move higher due to strong global demand, but most producers felt natural gas
prices would hold steady until the winter heating season began. District coal production
increased in late July and early August, but remained below year-ago levels. Ethanol prices and
profits retreated from recent highs as the industry increased production. Wages and Prices. Inflationary pressures softened during the last survey period as wage
pressures remained low and fewer businesses expected to raise prices over the coming months.
Most industries did not plan to raise wages, except for a few skilled positions, such as engineers,
software developers, mechanics, and truck drivers. After rising modestly during the past survey
period, fewer retailers expected to raise selling prices over the next three months. Restaurateurs,
however, expected further increases in menu prices due to rising food costs. Fewer
manufacturers reported price increases for raw materials, and most did not plan to pass on higher
costs to finished goods prices. Builders and construction supply companies noted prices for
construction materials generally held steady, with the exception of higher prices for petroleum-
based products such as roofing shingles and asphalt. Transportation companies continued to pay
high fuel prices, and some were considering raising rates.

 XI-1 ELEVENTH DISTRICT—DALLAS The Eleventh District economy grew at a modest pace since the last report. Reports from
manufacturers were mixed, and activity in the services sector rose slightly. The single-family housing sector
remained weak, but activity in the multifamily sector was strong and the commercial real estate sector saw
continued improvement. Financial services respondents said overall loan demand was flat during the reporting
period. The energy industry continued to expand at a robust pace, while agricultural conditions deteriorated
further in the District. Employment levels were stable at most responding firms and price pressures were
unchanged. Numerous contacts said stock market volatility, declining consumer confidence and uncertainty
regarding national economic conditions had dampened their outlook. Prices Overall, prices were unchanged from the last report, although there were some reports of
price increases. Food producers noted a continued rise in commodity prices, particularly for corn. Accounting,
legal and staffing firms reported slight increases in rates charged for their services, and airlines noted fare
increases in the high single digits compared to last year’s levels. Contacts in rail transportation said they had
rolled back some earlier instituted increases in shipping rates, and airlines and cargo service firms reported
benefitting from lower fuel prices. Retailers noted slight declines in overall prices, although increases were
seen for high-end goods and certain products affected by higher cotton prices. The price of WTI fell from near $100 per barrel in early July to $85 at the end of the reporting period
in late August. Natural gas, gasoline and diesel prices fell since the last report, and prices for most
petrochemical products were flat or down. Labor Market Most responding firms reported steady employment levels, and some noted slight
hiring activity. Staffing firms continued to see steady demand at high levels. Most transportation equipment,
food and metals manufacturers reported an increase in payrolls, and some said they had increased work hours
as well. A few contacts at legal services, auto sales, energy, and transportation service firms reported modest
employment increases. Wage pressures remained minimal, although upward pressure was noted by one
transportation equipment manufacturer. Manufacturing Reports from construction-related manufacturers were mixed, but suggest overall
activity levels were unchanged. Manufacturers tied to residential construction generally reported continued
sluggish demand. Primary metals manufacturers saw a broad-based increase in activity, and producers of
lumber and wood products noted a pickup in demand partly due to remodeling projects. Construction-related
outlooks remained weak, and some contacts expressed concern about the uncertainty surrounding the national
economy and lack of sufficient backlogs. Respondents in high-tech manufacturing report that growth in sales and orders weakened since the
last report. Demand for basic memory products such as DRAM has weakened, while continued growth in

 XI-2
demand for servers to store and process data has kept orders for microprocessors growing at a solid pace.
Slow growth in Asia and increased uncertainty about the European and US economic outlooks has reduced
business investment in high-tech products. The outlook for the next three to six months is for weak but
positive growth. Paper manufacturers reported that demand growth softened slightly during the reporting period, but
remained better than last year’s levels. Manufacturers of transportation equipment reported strong sales with
demand flat to up since the last report and well above year-ago levels. Outlooks are optimistic, with contacts
expecting demand to hold steady at current high levels over the next few months. Food producers reported a
seasonal uptick in demand, but noted that they had seen a significant decline in overall sales compared with
earlier in the year. Petrochemical producers reported that after about six months of extensive plant outages, shortages of
key materials, and dramatic price increases, resin and plastics markets have settled. Contacts said demand for
most products remained good since the last report, with the exception of PVC products due to weak
construction markets. Refiners said capacity utilization rates were the highest since 2007, and margins were
strong based on good demand. Orders for oil products slipped in July, but strengthened again in August,
according to contacts. Retail Sales Retail demand was unchanged since the last report, but sales rose in the mid-to-low
single digits from a year ago. Back-to school sales activity picked up slightly. Apparel, especially women’s
clothing, and fine jewelry are segments that have shown strength recently. There is some concern regarding
recent stock market volatility and its potential impact on consumer confidence, but this has not affected store
activity, reported contacts. Sales in Texas and the Southwest region continued to outpace those nationwide by
a slim margin, according to two large retailers, and expectations are for continued modest growth through
year-end. Automobile sales continued to improve, and contacts say supply issues from Japanese manufacturers
should resolve by the end of September. Demand for used cars remained high, along with their prices.
Contacts were optimistic and expect sales to increase through year-end. Services Overall demand for staffing services held steady at high levels, although several firms
noted slight declines in activity. One contact reported that temporary placements were being outpaced by
direct hiring activity. Outlooks were more cautious than the previous reporting period, with contacts
expecting demand to remain flat or decline through year-end. Demand for accounting services was flat,
although contacts noted some strength in mergers and acquisitions activity. Legal firms reported continued
solid demand for intellectual property, energy, IPO, and mergers and acquisitions services. Reports from transportation service firms were mostly positive, but suggest that uncertainty
surrounding the national economy has somewhat weakened outlooks. Intermodal cargo volumes increased

 XI-3
since the last report. Railroad shipments rose slightly, with particularly strong volume growth in metallic ores,
petroleum products and non-commercial building products. Container volumes declined during the reporting
period, and contacts reported a weaker outlook than during the earlier reporting period. Small parcel
shipments rebounded in August after declining in July, in part due to growth in retail trade activity. Airline
traffic held steady over the past six weeks. Demand for travel within the US and to Latin America was solid,
but travel to Asia and Europe remained weak. Airline contacts expect to see modest improvement in revenues
in the fourth quarter. Construction and Real Estate Contacts in the single-family housing industry said new and existing
home sales rose slightly since the last report, although the market remains weak overall. Existing home
inventories declined and new home inventories remained lean. Respondents are cautious in their outlooks, but
most expect a slight improvement in sales in the second half of the year, with a slow recovery taking hold by
early 2012. Apartment demand was strong during the reporting period, and rental rates continued to rise. Contacts
also noted increased sales of apartment properties. Leasing activity for office and industrial space continued at
a moderate pace since the last report. Contacts noted strong demand in Houston stemming, in part, from
energy activity. Financial Services Most financial firms reported relatively flat loan demand, with the exception of
one contact who noted a slowdown in lending activity. Contacts at national banks said they are concerned about
the loss of momentum for a self-sustaining recovery and are seeing customers approach borrowing decisions
conservatively. Regional banks said loan pricing remained aggressive. Outlooks are generally less optimistic
than the prior reporting period, although outstanding loan quality remains stable and there continues to be
gradual improvement in lending conditions. Energy Texas drilling activity rose since the last report, with the state adding 43 rigs over the past
six weeks. Most of the demand is from land-based drilling, led by horizontal drilling and fracturing. Initially
applied to natural gas formations, success is growing in application of these technologies to oil basins, such as
the Permian Basin. Contacts noted that activity in the Gulf of Mexico remained weak, with only a few recent
permits approved for drilling. Agriculture Drought conditions remain severe and agricultural losses in the state have reached $5.2
billion, surpassing the 2006 record of $4.1 billion, according to Texas AgriLife Extension Service estimates.
Dry weather and high temperatures have reduced yields and increased abandonment of crops. The livestock
sector has also suffered greatly, with very poor grazing conditions necessitating costly supplemental feeding
and in many cases the selling off of herds. An increase in the number of cows and calves being sold has
dampened cattle prices. Grain prices have generally increased since the last report, partly driven by lower
production expectations. Strong export demand for beef has benefitted the district’s livestock sector.

 XII - 1 TWELFTH DISTRICT–SAN FRANCISCO
Summary Economic activity in the Twelfth District continued to expand modestly during the reporting
period of mid-July through the end of August. Upward price pressures were mixed but appeared to ease
overall, and upward pressures on wages were subdued. Demand for retail items edged up on balance, as
did demand for business and consumer services. Manufacturing activity in the District grew a bit further.
Demand remained robust for agricultural producers but fell slightly for providers of energy resources.
Activity in District housing markets stayed sluggish, and demand for commercial real estate was largely
unchanged. District banking contacts indicated that overall loan demand was stable or inched down.
Wages and Prices Upward price pressures were very limited on net during the reporting period. Further modest
price declines were noted for energy inputs and some raw materials. Stiff competition among domestic
firms, combined with weak final demand, resulted in largely stable prices for most categories of final
goods and services. The primary reported exceptions were clothing and medical care, for which recent
cost increases were passed through to final prices. Upward wage pressures were largely nonexistent, as compensation gains were held down by high
levels of unemployment and limited demand for new hires. As a result of uncertain product demand,
businesses in most sectors expect to remain highly cautious in regard to hiring for the foreseeable future,
suggesting that compensation pressures are likely to remain subdued. However, contacts continued to
report significant upward wage pressures for workers with advanced skills in technology fields.
Retail Trade and Services Retail sales were mixed but rose a bit overall. For general merchandise such as apparel and
smaller household items, contacts reported modest improvements in sales, with stronger performance for
traditional department stores than for discount chains. By contrast, retailers of major appliances and
furniture reported weaker demand resulting from a renewed sense of caution on the part of consumers.
Grocery sales were largely flat. Sales of new automobiles improved somewhat, despite ongoing shortages

 XII - 2
of parts and assembled vehicles for some brands arising from the natural disaster in Japan earlier this
year. The demand for used vehicles continued to firm, with contacts noting rising sales and additional
upward pressure on prices and trade-in values. Demand for business and consumer services continued to strengthen overall. Sales expanded
further for providers of technology services, as consumer demand for software, e-books, and mobile
applications continued to grow. Providers of professional services such as law and accounting reported
that demand was little changed from the prior period. Similarly, demand for transportation services was
characterized as largely flat. For energy utilities, demand waned a bit during the beginning of the
reporting period but improved later. Providers of health-care services reported that demand strengthened
somewhat. Conditions in the District’s travel and tourism industry improved further, with demand
growth reported for the business and tourism segments alike.
Manufacturing District manufacturing activity was mixed but appeared to grow slightly during the reporting
period of mid-July through the end of August. Although manufacturers of semiconductors and other
technology products reported slower growth for new orders and sales, capacity utilization rates remained
high and inventories were near desired levels given the pace of sales. For makers of commercial aircraft,
significant increases in new orders for narrow-body aircraft combined with an existing order backlog to
keep production rates near capacity. A metal fabricator noted that sales were “steady but slow” and raw
materials were readily available. Petroleum refiners reported slightly weaker demand and capacity
utilization rates that were largely stable, causing product inventories to rise somewhat. Demand held at
very low levels for manufacturers of wood products.
Agriculture and Resource-related Industries Demand grew further for agricultural products and metals but was down slightly for natural
resources used for energy production. Orders and sales continued to expand for a wide variety of crop
and livestock products, especially cattle and cotton. Contacts noted that agricultural input costs have
stabilized following significant increases in the spring. Rising sales prices for assorted metals spurred

 XII - 3
further increases in mining activity in parts of the District. Overall demand for crude oil weakened a bit,
primarily reflecting weaker domestic demand, but extraction activity for natural gas was largely
unchanged.
Real Estate and Construction Demand for housing and for commercial real estate was little changed from existing low levels.
Although the reports pointed to scattered signs of improvement in the entry-level and high-end segments
of the District’s housing markets, the pace of home sales and construction remained depressed. By
contrast, demand for rental space continued to grow, enabling landlords to increase rents and scale back
tenant concessions in some areas. Demand for commercial real estate remained weak overall, and
vacancy rates for office and industrial space stayed elevated throughout the District. Conditions were
mixed across geographic markets, with deterioration in leasing activity for some areas contrasting with
ongoing improvements in areas that have benefited from growth in the technology sector, such as the San
Francisco Bay Area and Seattle.
Financial Institutions Reports from District banking contacts indicated that loan demand was largely stable to
marginally down compared with the prior reporting period. Citing heightened levels of uncertainty, some
businesses showed a reduced desire to engage in expansionary capital spending, reportedly causing
demand for commercial and industrial loans to weaken slightly. Contacts in most sectors reported
downward revisions to their expectations for growth in their industry for the remainder of the year,
suggesting that capital spending will remain muted in coming months. On the consumer side, loan
demand was largely unchanged. While lending standards remained relatively restrictive for business and
consumer loans, the reports pointed to ongoing improvements in overall credit quality and some
loosening of credit standards for selected borrowers.

