 For use at 2:00 p.m., E.D.T. Wednesday April 17, 2013
Summary of Commentary on ____________________ Current Economic Conditions By Federal Reserve District April 2013

SUMMARY OF COMMENTARY ON CURRENT ECONOMIC CONDITIONS BY FEDERAL RESERVE DISTRICTS APRIL 2013

 TABLE OF CONTENTS
SUMMARY ..................................................................................................................................... i
First District – Boston ................................................................................................................... I-1
Second District – New York .......................................................................................................II-1
Third District – Philadelphia ...................................................................................................... III-1
Fourth District – Cleveland ....................................................................................................... IV -1
Fifth District – Richmond ........................................................................................................... V-1
Sixth District – Atlanta .............................................................................................................. VI-1
Seventh District – Chicago ....................................................................................................... VII-1
Eighth District – St. Louis ...................................................................................................... VIII-1
Ninth District – Minneapolis ..................................................................................................... IX-1
Tenth District – Kansas City ....................................................................................................... X-1
Eleventh District – Dallas .......................................................................................................... XI-1
Twelfth District – San Francisco .............................................................................................. XII-1

 i Summary* Reports from the twelve Federal Reserve Districts suggest overall economic activity
expanded at a moderate pace during the reporting period from late February to early April.
Activity in the Cleveland, Richmond, St. Louis, Minneapolis, and Kansas City Districts was
characterized as growing at a moderate pace, while the Boston, Philadelphia, Atlanta, Chicago,
and San Francisco Districts noted modest growth. The New York and Dallas Districts indicated
that the pace of expansion accelerated slightly since the previous Beige Book. Most Districts noted increases in manufacturing activity since the previous report.
Particular strength was seen in industries tied to residential construction and automobiles, while
several Districts reported uncertainty or weakness in defense-related sectors. Consumer spending
grew modestly, and firms in some Districts cited higher gasoline prices, expiration of the payroll
tax cut, and winter weather as factors restraining sales growth. Retailers in several Districts
expect continued sales growth in the near term. Overall vehicle sales remained strong or
increased, but sales of used automobiles declined in some Districts. Travel and tourism expanded
across most reporting Districts, boosted by both business and leisure travel. Demand for nonfinancial services increased at a modest pace, and several Districts noted
growth in freight and transportation services. Most Districts said residential and commercial real
estate improved markedly since the last report. Home prices were rising in many areas of the
country. Loan demand was steady to slightly up in most Districts. Reports on agricultural
conditions were mixed, as drought or cold weather adversely impacted some Districts while
others reported a strong agricultural sector. Oil and natural gas activity remained robust over the
reporting period, with contacts in the Cleveland, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts expecting a
rise in activity in coming months, while coal production continued to decline. Employment conditions remained unchanged or improved somewhat, and reports of
hiring were most prevalent in the manufacturing, residential construction, information
technology, and professional services sectors. Wage pressures were generally contained,
although several Districts cited upward pressures in occupations experiencing labor shortages,
such as information technology, construction, and engineering. Aside from reports of increases
* Prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas based on information collected on or before April 5,
2013. This document summarizes comments received from businesses and other contacts outside the
Federal Reserve and is not a commentary on the views of Federal Reserve officials.

 ii
in home prices and residential construction materials, price pressures remained mostly subdued
across Districts. Outlooks among respondents remained optimistic across sectors and Districts, with
growth mostly expected to continue at the same or a slightly improved pace. Some uncertainty
remained, primarily regarding fiscal policy and health care reform.
Manufacturing Manufacturing activity held steady or increased in most Districts since the previous Beige
Book. The pace of growth picked up in the Cleveland, Atlanta, Minneapolis, Dallas, and San
Francisco Districts, while the Richmond and Chicago Districts noted that the pace of growth in
production was slower than earlier this year. Contacts in the Boston District reported mixed
conditions, and manufacturing activity held steady in the New York District. Manufacturing
conditions in the Kansas City District continued to soften, driven by weaker durable goods
production, although factory managers project a rebound in coming months. Firms in the New
York, Philadelphia, and Dallas Districts were broadly optimistic about prospects for 2013, while
cautious optimism was expressed by manufacturers in the Cleveland District, and mixed
outlooks were expressed in the Boston District. Contacts in the Atlanta District do not expect
future production to be as high as previously projected. Strength in residential construction spurred manufacturing increases in several Districts.
There were widespread reports of growth in demand for wood products; a contact in the
Philadelphia District noted the best growth prospects in five years, a sawmill in Montana
restarted production after idling for more than four years, and a Dallas District lumber firm noted
a seasonal demand increase for the first time in several years. The auto industry remained a
source of strength for several Districts, including Philadelphia, Cleveland, Chicago, St. Louis,
and Minneapolis. Gains were reported by food manufacturers in the Philadelphia and Dallas
Districts, and food contacts in the St. Louis and Dallas Districts plan to expand operations or
make significant capital expenditures. In the Cleveland District, suppliers to the shale gas
industry cited strong activity, and increased activity in natural-gas related industries was seen in
the Chicago District. Electronic equipment and instruments manufacturers in the Philadelphia
District and high tech firms in the Kansas City District noted gains over the reporting period,

 iii
while reports on high tech orders in the Dallas District were mixed across customer groups, and
semiconductor firms in the Boston District said sales continued to languish. Numerous Districts reported uncertainty or weakness in military or defense-related
sectors. San Francisco District defense-related manufactures noted furloughs, layoffs, and plant
closures at some production facilities, and military customers in the Chicago District were taking
measures to lower costs in anticipation of tighter future defense budgets. Lower activity was
indicated by makers of primary metals in the Philadelphia District, and Chicago District specialty
metal manufacturers noted declines in new orders. Demand for steel was relatively flat in the
Cleveland and Chicago Districts, while firms in the San Francisco District saw an increase in
demand for steel products used primarily in transportation infrastructure and nonresidential
construction projects. Reports from fabricated metals producers were mixed across Districts,
with increases noted in the Philadelphia and Dallas Districts while weaker production was noted
in the Kansas City District.
Consumer Spending and Tourism Most Districts reported increases in retail spending. Firms in the New York, Philadelphia,
Cleveland, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts noted sales
increased at a modest to moderate pace. Most retailers in the Boston District said demand was
slower than expected. Sales activity was mixed according to the Atlanta District’s report, and
retail spending declined in the Richmond and Chicago Districts. Demand for apparel rose in the
Boston, Cleveland, Kansas City, and San Francisco Districts, and sales of furniture and
appliances in the Chicago District were buoyed by improvements in the housing market. Sales of
electronics rose in the Cleveland District, and the San Francisco District report indicated strong
demand for mobile computing devices. Contacts in some Districts cited higher gasoline prices,
expiration of the payroll tax cut, and winter weather as factors restraining sales growth. Looking
ahead, retailers in several Districts expect modest sales growth in the near term. In particular, the
St. Louis District reported new store openings, and some retailers in the Dallas District said they
have added employees in line with expanding operations. Overall, automobile sales remained strong or increased moderately since the last report.
The exception was a slight decline in sales of used vehicles in the New York and Cleveland
Districts. A number of contacts in the St. Louis District reported plans to open new dealership

 iv
locations, and dealers in the Chicago District were building inventories for the spring selling
season. Used vehicle prices remained high. Outlooks were mostly positive, and contacts in the
Cleveland, Chicago, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts expect sales to increase in
coming months. However, some auto dealers in the Cleveland District expressed concern about
the potential negative impact of fiscal policy on consumer spending. Reports from most Districts pointed to continued strength in travel and tourism, bolstered
by both the business and leisure segments. Business travel remained robust in the Boston,
Atlanta, and Minneapolis Districts, and foreign visitors continued to boost convention travel
according to the Atlanta District. The Minneapolis District noted that winter tourism activity was
stronger than last year, and spring-break related travel bolstered tourism in the Richmond
District. Restaurants in the Minneapolis and Kansas City Districts noted increased sales.
Bookings were strong at some resorts in the Philadelphia and Richmond Districts, and hotels in
Manhattan, Hawaii, and the Kansas City District noted solid gains in occupancy rates. In
contrast, business at restaurants and museums in the Boston District softened in part due to
unfavorable weather conditions. Attendance and revenues were slightly lower at Broadway
theaters, casino revenues fell in the Philadelphia District, and tourism activity weakened in
Southern California during the reporting period.
Nonfinancial Services Demand for nonfinancial services expanded at a modest pace since the previous report.
The Kansas City and San Francisco Districts noted solid growth in information technology
services, and contacts expect demand to remain robust through year-end. The Boston District
reported strong demand for healthcare consulting services partly due to changes resulting from
the Affordable Care Act, while healthcare firms in the San Francisco District indicated plans to
freeze hiring and scale back capital expenditures in response to federal spending cuts. Defense-
related and other firms dependent on the federal government in the Philadelphia District said
they expect a decline in activity for the remainder of the year. Activity expanded for professional and business services, such as accounting, advertising,
marketing, consulting, and legal services. Consulting services remained strong in the Boston
District, and firms in the Dallas District noted strength in accounting services. Advertising and
marketing firms in the Boston District said an uptick in growth for their services was buoyed by

 v
stronger financial positions of clients. The St. Louis District noted plans for hiring and expansion
in social and legal services, while the Dallas District report indicated weaker-than-expected
growth in demand for legal services. Transportation service activity increased since the previous report. Air travel improved in
the Dallas District, in part due to spring-break related activity. Intermodal cargo volumes moved
higher in the Atlanta and Dallas Districts, and activity at logistics and transport firms in the
Philadelphia District grew at a moderate rate. Trucking traffic picked up in the Kansas City
District, and trucking cargo volumes were above year ago levels according to Atlanta’s report.
Railroad contacts in the Dallas District said shipments grew, particularly for petroleum and
construction-related products, and freight transportation volumes were higher than expected in
the Cleveland District. According to Richmond’s report, container traffic increased at larger
ports in the District because of continued strength in shipments of auto parts. Air freight volumes
rose in the Atlanta District, and small parcel shipments grew strongly in the Dallas District.
However, railroad shipments were flat to slightly down in the Atlanta District, and a contact in
the Richmond District said that European-bound vessels were leaving the port lighter than in the
past, particularly due to a decline in construction and agricultural equipment exports.
Real Estate and Construction Residential real estate activity continued to improve in most Districts, and some Districts,
including Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco,
noted increased momentum since the last report. The New York District, in particular, noted
especially strong improvement in residential real estate—both in for-sale housing and apartment
markets. Home sales continued to rise in most Districts. Although homebuyer demand was high in
the Boston District, low home inventories were restraining sales, keeping growth modest. Home
sales were reportedly strong in both the Atlanta and Dallas Districts. The Richmond District
noted low inventories were pushing up contracts to well above listing prices, and the Boston and
New York Districts said multiple bids on properties have become more common. Tight
inventories and strong sales led to rising home prices in many Districts, including Atlanta,
Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco. Within the New York District, condo sales
volumes strengthened and low inventories have begun to drive up selling prices in New York

 vi
City and surrounding areas, while New Jersey home prices were rising modestly and inventories
were shrinking with a marked reduction in the number of distressed properties. Contacts in the
Boston District also noted a decline in the stock of distressed properties. New home construction continued to pick up in most Districts, although the Richmond
District said that a low supply of residential building materials had stalled construction. Only the
Philadelphia District noted that residential construction decelerated somewhat, although home
sales were still growing moderately. Multifamily construction increased in several Districts
including Boston, Chicago, and San Francisco. The New York District noted apartment rents
accelerated in early 2013, due to stronger demand coupled with historically low inventories. The
Cleveland, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts said apartment demand remained strong. Commercial real estate and construction activity improved in most Districts. Office
vacancy rates declined in the Boston District and contacts said the construction of mixed-use
projects was picking up. The New York District reported that office vacancy rates continued to
decline and rents rose in Manhattan. The Philadelphia District commented that there was not
much change in nonresidential activity during the reporting period, but that contracts for repair
work from Hurricane Sandy have yet to be approved. Contacts in the Richmond District cited a
tight supply of class A office space and said there were several large projects under construction
in the Washington D.C. area. Commercial construction saw widespread improvement with the
New York, Atlanta, St. Louis, Minneapolis, and Kansas City Districts noting increases. Both
commercial real estate development and leasing activity increased across the San Francisco
District, mostly fueled by growth in the technology industry. Several Districts, including Boston,
Richmond, Atlanta, and Kansas City said commercial property investment sales activity
increased during the reporting period. Contacts in the Philadelphia and Kansas City Districts were somewhat optimistic in their
outlooks for the commercial real estate and construction markets in general, but contacts in the
Cleveland District were cautious about near-term construction activity. Dallas District contacts
said office and warehouse markets were improving, and Atlanta District respondents noted
growing optimism for the office and industrial sectors.

 vii
Banking and Finance Loan demand was steady to slightly up at most District Banks that commented on
lending. The Philadelphia District, however, said loan volumes softened somewhat since the
previous report. The New York District noted widespread increases in loan demand, particularly
for commercial loans and residential mortgages, and the Cleveland District said business and
consumer loan demand picked up since the last report. The Dallas District saw broad-based
improvement in loan demand as energy-related lending remained strong and commercial real
estate and home equity lending bounced up from low levels. The San Francisco District said
increased growth in automobile and mortgage loans spurred overall improvements in loan
demand. Several Districts, including Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago,
Dallas, and San Francisco, said loan pricing was very competitive. Reports on mortgage lending were mostly favorable. Stronger refinancing activity was
cited by the New York and Atlanta Districts. The Cleveland and Kansas City Districts noted a
shift from mortgage refinancing to new purchases, and the New York, Richmond, Dallas, and
San Francisco Districts reported an uptick in residential mortgage loans. Most District banks said credit conditions remained favorable, with improved credit
quality for business and consumer loans.
Agriculture and Natural Resources Agricultural conditions were mixed across Districts, largely due to varying weather
patterns. Drought persisted in the Kansas City District and worsened slightly in the Dallas
District, straining the respective winter wheat crops and causing continued losses in the livestock
sector. However, drought conditions improved significantly in much of the Atlanta District, and
the winter wheat crop in the St. Louis District was largely in good condition. Cold weather
delayed field preparation for spring planting in the Richmond and Chicago Districts. The
Minneapolis District’s agricultural sector remained strong, and producers in the San Francisco
District noted increased production as well as higher demand. Farmers in the Chicago, St. Louis,
and Minneapolis Districts plan to increase soybean acreage this year but were mixed in their
plans for corn and other grain acreage. Contacts in the Chicago District noted that corn and
soybean prices dropped over the reporting period based on expectations of a larger crop this year
and current stocks not being as tight as anticipated.

 viii Oil and natural gas production generally held steady at moderate to high levels since the
last report. Drilling activity was stable over the reporting period, but contacts in the Kansas City
and Dallas Districts expect a rise in coming months. Output in some wet gas regions of the
Cleveland District is expected to increase later in the year as new gas processing units come
online. The energy sector was a bright spot in the Atlanta District, as projects to increase the
Gulf Coast’s liquefied natural gas (LNG) export capacity drove capital and labor demand. Across
the country, coal production continued to decline, with lower output reported by the Cleveland,
Richmond, St. Louis, and Kansas City Districts.
Employment, Wages, and Prices Labor market conditions remained unchanged or improved slightly, and reports of hiring
were more widespread in the manufacturing, residential construction, information technology,
and professional services sectors. Several Districts noted robust demand for workers tied to the
residential construction sector, including Philadelphia, Cleveland, Dallas, and San Francisco. In
particular, a lumber and wood products firm in the Philadelphia District said the firming housing
market had resulted in the best growth prospects in five years. Demand for information
technology professionals and engineers was strong in the New York, Richmond, Minneapolis,
Kansas City, and San Francisco Districts. Staffing firms in the Cleveland and Chicago Districts
noted an increase in orders from the manufacturing sector, and several manufacturers in the St.
Louis and Kansas City Districts said they planned on expanding their payrolls. Reports from the
New York and Richmond Districts indicated strong demand for temporary workers. The
Minneapolis District noted a tightening labor market, and along with the Dallas District cited
continued challenges in attracting and retaining workers in areas close to oil-drilling regions. The
Chicago District cited a stronger job market for new college graduates and more competition
among employers to fill intern positions. Contacts in several Districts faced difficulties finding
highly trained or skilled workers, especially in the information technology and engineering
fields. In contrast, hiring activity was limited in the Boston and Cleveland Districts, demand for
staffing services softened in the Dallas District, and some Districts, including Richmond and
Atlanta, reported restrained hiring due to uncertainty over fiscal policy or healthcare reform. Overall upward wage pressures continued to be fairly modest. There were a few
exceptions, however. Several Districts reported wage pressures in sectors experiencing labor

 ix
shortages, such as information technology, construction, and engineering. The Kansas City
District noted wage increases for commercial truck drivers, and the Richmond District reported
widespread wage increases in the service sector. Rising healthcare costs were a concern among
contacts in a few Districts, including Philadelphia, Cleveland, and Chicago. The majority of Districts said overall price pressures remained minimal during the
reporting period. Several Districts, including Boston, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Minneapolis,
Kansas City, and San Francisco, said prices for some construction materials rose since the last
report, but there were few reports of pass-through. Kansas City District contacts said price increases for raw materials used in manufacturing
led to higher selling prices in some instances and retail prices edged up. New York District
respondents noted some increased selling prices in the service sector, and the Atlanta District
reported that contacts in the transportation sector were able to cover cost increases with fuel
surcharges. The Atlanta and Dallas Districts said that cotton prices rose since the last report. Contacts in the Richmond District noted input and finished goods prices rose at a slower
pace since the last report, and Chicago District contacts said commodity prices were down
slightly.

 I-1 FIRST DISTRICT – BOSTON Economic activity in the First District continues to expand modestly according to business
contacts, although conditions are somewhat mixed across individual firms. Retailers generally cite slower
than expected sales, and tourism has softened, partly on account of unseasonal weather. Over half of
responding First District manufacturers report demand improvements in the first quarter; the rest are less
upbeat. Most consulting and advertising firms say business is strong. Reports from the commercial real
estate sector are more positive in this round than previously, with leasing activity improving in some
markets. In the residential sector, limited inventory is said to be constraining home sales in the region, but
median home prices are rising modestly. Contacts say hiring reflects demand growth, so few firms are
adding substantially to headcounts except in the consulting sector. Price pressures are minimal. Most
respondents expect current trends to continue, yielding modest to moderate growth in the second quarter
and the second half of the year.
Retail and Tourism Retailers contacted for this round cite mixed results for first quarter 2013. One reports that year-
over-year comp store sales were up 2.5 percent to 2.6 percent, while others report slower than expected
sales. Some contacts attribute their slowdowns partly to the prolonged winter weather, noting that while
this winter has been unseasonably cold in some regions, winter 2012 was unusually mild. Demand
remains strong for clothing, shoes, and home furnishings. Inventories are in good shape, and any price
increases are moderate. Contacts continue to expect that 2013 sales increases will be in the modest single
digits. The tourism business softened in February and March compared with a year earlier; some of this
slowdown is also attributed to weather-related factors, especially for restaurants and museums. January
through March is seasonally the slowest period for leisure travel. Tourist activity from Europe dropped
about 5 percent this quarter compared to a year ago. Corporate business travel and entertaining remain
strong.
Manufacturing and Related Services Conversations with a dozen manufacturing contacts paint a mixed picture. More than half report
that demand for their products improved in the first quarter versus the previous quarter or a year earlier.
The two firms reporting the strongest sales growth were in the health care sector—a drug company and a
medical device manufacturer—and both reported spectacular growth. At the other end of the spectrum,
two firms in the semiconductor business report that sales continue to languish. One, a maker of analog
devices, acknowledged that the semiconductor business is cyclical, but said that the duration of the
current slowdown is unlike anything he had encountered in his years in the industry. Hiring patterns largely mirror sales growth, with four firms reporting substantial hiring, three
citing stability, and five firms reporting staff reductions. The two health care-related firms led the pack,

 I-2
increasing staff at annualized rates of 15 percent to 18 percent. For the medical device manufacturer, the
hiring was largely support personnel such as sales, marketing, and back office. Weakness in demand is not yet translating into lower capital expenditures, with only one firm
reporting a reduction. Half the firms noted increases in spending and the rest reported no change. One of
firms engaged in substantial capital spending relative to sales is the analog semiconductor firm reporting
continued weakness in sales; the firm’s managers indicate they remain confident that the long-term
growth patterns in the industry will justify their investment. Looking forward, only one-third of manufacturing respondents were negative about the outlook.
Most of the rest were optimistic or “cautiously optimistic.”
Selected Business Services Consulting and advertising contacts in the First District report a generally strong first quarter and
were positive about their firms’ recent performance and near-term outlook. Marketing and advertising
contacts note an uptick in growth due to clients in stronger financial positions and with more money to
spend. Several contacts report robust demand for health care consulting services as the industry adapts to
massive changes attributable in part to the Affordable Care Act. Economic consulting remains strong
because of high levels of complex high-stakes litigation; management and strategy consulting contacts
cite improved business conditions as clients have become more optimistic and seem to believe that it is
time to invest for future growth. The only contact to report a bad quarter works mostly with the federal
government and has been heavily affected by fiscal contraction. Contacts generally report cost increases around 2 percent and most firms either raised their rates
between zero and 5 percent, or plan to do so later in the year. Several firms have done no hiring because
of strong recent hiring or a desire to wait until stronger demand seems more certain. Other firms report
stronger hiring, particularly related to health care consulting, in order to deal with increasing demand. Most contacts expect growth to remain strong or to pick up through the rest of 2013. One
exception is a government contractor who is too uncertain about future fiscal policy to offer a forecast.
Other respondents seem minimally concerned about fiscal issues, the European debt crisis, and the state
of the macro economy, a change from the recent past. One contact specifically notes that client businesses
seem to have become comfortable with the level of uncertainty in the economy and are deciding to move
forward with investment and business expansion rather than wait for more clarity; several other contacts’
reports are consistent with this characterization.
Commercial Real Estate Reports from commercial real estate contacts in the First District contain much good news.
Boston contacts uniformly remark that the office leasing market has firmed up in recent months and that
the vacancy rate is down significantly from one year ago. Activity is particularly strong in the seaport
district, but financial district towers are also seeing absorption of long-vacant space. Investment sales

 I-3
activity in greater Boston remains brisk, especially for multifamily structures. Planned construction
projects in Boston picked up considerably, with a focus on mixed-use projects, and should lead to job
gains for the sector moving forward. In Hartford, the state government purchased a large downtown office
tower, absorbing a large block of Class A space, boosting business sentiment and, it is speculated, helping
put upward pressure on rents. In Portland, the retail property market saw healthy leasing activity and
investment sales activity picked up modestly. In Providence, progress continues on some large office
leasing deals (despite not yet leading to completions), investment sales activity continues to rise, and
business sentiment is seen as increasingly optimistic. On the downside, Hartford saw stagnant office
leasing and virtually no construction activity, while Portland’s office vacancy rate remains stubbornly
high at 12 percent. Small-scale commercial real estate loan demand remains well below last year’s pace,
according to one regional lender. Construction materials costs are on the rise, putting pressure on profit
margins at small firms in particular. In Portland, property fundamentals are expected to remain flat despite forecasts of healthy
transaction volume and a possible increase in hiring by some large firms. In Hartford, the outlook remains
cautiously optimistic. In Providence, upside risks to absorption and rents remain, while the federal
sequester poses a threat to the state’s defense industry. In Boston, one contact expects improvement in
fundamentals to remain slow while another expects absorption to accelerate if employment growth
continues at its current pace. Boston is expected to remain a magnet for investors owing to its strength in
the health and education sectors. However, Boston contacts continue to express concern over property
valuations that appear high in relation to income-growth potential.
Residential Real Estate Strong consecutive months of year-over-year growth in single-family homes sales halted in
February, with some New England states experiencing marginal increases and most observing a decline.
According to contacts, buyer demand remains strong, but dwindling inventory levels have hampered
growth in sales. Meanwhile, median sale prices across the region rose from a year ago. Contacts attribute
the price rise to the declining stock of distressed properties compared to a year ago as well as to the
general decline in inventory reducing supply relative to demand. Particularly in urban areas throughout
New England, decreasing inventory levels have placed upward pressure on prices. In the Greater Boston
area, contacts report that multiple bids on properties have become more common as inventory continues
to dwindle. Contacts express concern that low inventory levels in the next several months could discourage
buyers and continue to be a significant factor limiting the growth of sales. On the other hand, inventory
levels may rise with the beginning of the busy spring season. In addition, rising prices will eventually lure
into the market sellers who have been waiting for the value of their homes to pick up before listing them.

 II-1 SECOND DISTRICT--NEW YORK Economic growth in the Second District has picked up somewhat since the last report.
Business contacts continue to report moderate input price pressures but most report their selling
prices remain steady. There has been fairly broad-based strengthening in labor market conditions.
Retailers report that sales have generally been strong and ahead of plan in March, and auto sales have
remained fairly robust. Tourism activity has generally been strong in recent weeks, though
Broadway theaters have been in a bit of a slump. Commercial and especially residential real estate
markets have strengthened since the last report. Finally, bankers report widespread increases in loan
demand, continued narrowing in loan spreads, and further modest declines in delinquency rates.
Consumer Spending Retailers report that sales were generally brisk in March. One major chain reports that same-
store sales were ahead of plan—especially in and around New York City—and up modestly from
March 2012 levels. A contact in upstate New York also reports that mall sales were brisk in March
and up from a year ago, following a tepid performance in February; some of the recent strength is
attributed to Canadian shoppers. Inventories are reported to be in good shape, prices are
characterized as steady, and no unusual discounting is reported. Auto dealers in the Buffalo and Rochester areas report that new vehicle sales have remained
fairly strong since the last report. February sales were roughly on par with comparable 2012 levels,
despite an exceptionally strong performance a year ago; March appears to be shaping up as a solid
month as well. Used vehicle sales are reported to have softened a bit, but this is largely attributed to
attractive deals in the new car market. Wholesale and retail credit conditions for auto purchases are
reported to be in good shape. Tourism activity has been mostly robust since the last report. Manhattan hotels report
continued brisk business in February and March: revenue per room was up nearly 15 percent, driven
by a combination of high and rising occupancy rates and escalating room rates. Hotels in the outer

 II-2
boroughs continue to see fairly strong business, partly reflecting ongoing demand from Sandy
recovery workers, and also from displaced residents. On the other hand, Broadway theaters report
some weakening in both attendance and revenues since mid-February; they have been running below
comparable 2012 levels by roughly 8 percent and 4 percent, respectively. Finally, consumer
confidence in the region has ebbed somewhat. The Conference Board’s survey of residents of the
Middle Atlantic states (NY, NJ, Pa) shows confidence retreating in March after rising in February,
and Siena College’s survey of New York State residents shows a similar pattern.
Construction and Real Estate Residential real estate markets in the District have shown increasingly widespread signs of
improvement in recent weeks. New York City apartment rents, which had flattened out in the final
months of 2012, have accelerated in early 2013 and are reported to be up 6-7 percent from a year ago
in Manhattan and by somewhat more in Brooklyn. With respect to the city’s co-op and condo
market, a major appraisal firm reports that sales volume has strengthened, while the inventory of
apartments for sale is down sharply to one of the lowest levels on record. Most of the new
development is at the upper end of the market, while low inventories across the rest of the spectrum
have begun to drive up selling prices across New York City, as well as in Westchester County and
Long Island. Multiple offers (bidding wars), though hardly the norm, are becoming more frequent
across the region. Prime areas of Brooklyn, where market conditions are particularly strong, are
reported to be seeing a good deal of commercial-to-residential conversion. Similarly, an expert on
northern New Jersey’s housing market reports continued improvement in market conditions: the
volume of distressed properties there has been shrinking, with noticeably fewer homes moving into
delinquency or foreclosure recently. Still, prices have moved up only modestly, held back by a slow
foreclosure process. Buffalo-area Realtors also report strong market fundamentals—declining
inventories and fairly rapid price appreciation.

 II-3 Commercial real estate markets across the District have also shown signs of improvement in
the first quarter. Office vacancy rates continued to decline across Manhattan, and asking rents rose—
particularly in the Midtown South area—while vacancy rates edged down and asking rents were little
changed in Long Island and northern New Jersey. Office vacancy rates in New York City and Long
Island are currently at their lowest levels in a number of years. In contrast, office vacancy rates
remain near multi-year highs in northern New Jersey, as well as in Westchester and Fairfield
counties; one New Jersey contact describes new construction activity there as “moribund”. In New
York City, though, commercial construction activity has been more robust, particularly in Lower
Manhattan, reflecting ongoing work on the World Trade Center complex and a new major transit hub
and complex. Industrial markets have been mixed: vacancy rates are down and rents up fairly sharply
on Long Island, whereas both are little changed at sluggish levels in northern New Jersey, and in
Westchester and Fairfield counties.
Other Business Activity Contacts in both manufacturing and other sectors report steady business activity in recent
weeks, while they remain broadly optimistic about prospects for 2013. In general, price pressures are
reported to be steady and moderate in the manufacturing sector but more widespread among service-
sector businesses; a small but growing number of service-sector contacts say they are increasing their
selling prices. There are growing signs of improvement in the job market. In general, more business
contacts indicate that they plan to increase than reduce staff in the months ahead. A major
employment agency reports that demand for temps remains strong, and that firms are also hiring
more full-time workers, as well as transitioning more temps to full-time positions. Qualified job
candidates are increasingly hard to find, and more job-seekers are now getting multiple job offers.
An employment agency contact reports increased hiring activity from a broad cross-section of
industries, including financial services and publishing, which had been sluggish. Another contact in

 II-4
the employment services industry notes particularly strong demand for IT workers. While starting
salary offers remain fairly stable in general, employers are reportedly often willing to pay top dollar
for tech workers with specialized skills.
Financial Developments Small- to medium-sized banks report an increase in demand for commercial loans and
mortgages but little change in demand for consumer loans and residential mortgages. Bankers report
an uptick in demand for refinancing. Credit standards are reported to be unchanged across all loan
categories. Respondents indicate a decrease in spreads of loan rates over costs of funds for all loan
categories—particularly for consumer loans, where roughly one in four bankers reports lower spreads
and no respondent reports higher spreads. Respondents also indicate continued decreases in average
deposit rates. Finally, bankers report continued modest declines in delinquency rates on all
categories of loans.

 III - 1 THIRD DISTRICT – PHILADELPHIA Aggregate business activity in the Third District has maintained the modest pace of
growth that was evident during the previous Beige Book period. In particular, general services,
staffing, tourism, and commercial real estate leasing continued to expand at modest rates.
General retail activity and residential construction appear to have decelerated somewhat, to a
modest rate of growth. Sales of new and used autos maintained a moderate rate of growth as did
residential real estate sales. Transportation services accelerated to a moderate pace of growth this
period. The manufacturing sector reported slight increases in overall demand – a pickup since
last period. Loan growth at Third District banks softened – growing little, while credit quality
continued to improve. Resorts in the Pocono Mountains maintained good activity, as they shifted
from their winter to spring season. Casino revenues continued to decline. General price levels, as
well as wages and home prices, were reported to have increased slightly overall – similar to the
last Beige Book period. The overall outlook for modest growth remains the same as those views expressed in the
last Beige Book. While some uncertainty remains as sequestration unfolds, contacts express
greater confidence in the underlying strength of the economy. However, many contacts continue
to hold off on their plans to expand capacity and hire more staff. Manufacturing. Since the last Beige Book, Third District manufacturers have reported
that orders and shipments have risen slightly. The makers of food products, lumber and wood
products, fabricated metals, industrial machinery, electronic equipment, and instruments have
reported gains since the last Beige Book. The makers of primary metals reported lower activity.
Contacts have attributed the greatest gains to ongoing auto-related demand and growing demand
from housing-related sectors; the greatest uncertainty was attached to military-related sectors. Third District manufacturers remained optimistic that business conditions will improve
over the next six months; their optimism is expressed broadly across nearly all sectors. A contact
from a lumber and wood products firm reported the best growth prospects in five years due to a
firming housing market; another wood products firm was hiring to expand capacity to meet
growing demand. However, firms overall have somewhat lowered their expectations of future
hiring and their plans for capital spending since the last Beige Book. Retail. Third District retailers reported modest growth overall in February and March.
After a falloff in sales (year over year) at many malls in February, contacts report that March
sales were stronger and that an early Easter should boost the month’s final results. During
March, stores had increased their promotions to move spring apparel to make way for the arrival

 III - 2
of the summer lineup; meanwhile, lingering cold weather had shoppers still searching for
appropriate winter wear. In contrast, shoppers enjoyed warmer overall temperatures last year,
including one 80-degree day during March to splurge on spring clothes. Although February ended with softer sales, auto dealers have continued to report a
moderate pace of overall sales growth since the last Beige Book. Growth in sales has been as
strong as last year despite worse weather, which has created up-and-down weekly sales patterns.
A late March snowstorm and an early calendar-year appearance for Passover and Easter may
have dampened sales in the final week of March. Dealers sustained a positive outlook but
maintained lean inventories. Contacts reported that nearly half of the dealers plan to add staff,
especially for sales and service. Most of the remaining dealers expect no change in staff levels. Finance. Overall, loan growth among Third District financial firms has softened
somewhat since the previous Beige Book – growing little if at all. Contacts suggested the lull
might be partially explained by the relative dearth of big deals in the wake of the fourth quarter
frenzy, plus more immediate concerns for the pending sequestration impacts. Mortgage
refinancings as a percent of total mortgages fell at many firms (often from as much as 90 percent
to 75 percent). Total loans secured by any real estate fell slightly during the period. Most bank
contacts report little change in credit standards and slow, steady gains in quality; many continue
to report aggressive behavior from some of their bank and nonbank competitors. Financial
institutions remain optimistic about future growth; however, the horizon for this growth appears
farther away. Real Estate and Construction. Homebuilders reported that contract activity was near
plan for February and March. Modest year-over-year growth rates were slower than last period;
however, more new homes were rising from the ground in the first quarter of 2013 than in any
year since 2008. Compared with historical patterns, current new construction tends to be smaller,
more affordable, more rental, and more urban. Builders are prepared to hire if current trends
continue but are reporting that good labor is increasingly scarce. Residential brokers reported
little change in the moderate pace of sales; however, year-over-year growth in February was
modest compared with last year when weather was unseasonably warm. The existing inventory
of homes continues to fall, and bank contacts reported that investor loans used to convert
residential properties to rentals are increasing. Nonresidential real estate contacts reported little change overall – maintaining modest
growth in overall leasing activity and slight growth in construction. A drop-off in the recently
high level of contract values being bid for construction of public utilities projects was partially
offset by bids for residential construction (including a $200 million high-rise apartment and a
university dorm project). Many contracts for repair work from Hurricane Sandy have yet to go to

 III - 3
bid. Investors appear to have increased development activity in Delaware’s shore communities in
expectation of attracting more tourists from New York and New Jersey. Overall, contacts are
more optimistic, citing increased inquiries, more commitments to decisions, rather than deferrals,
and more deals to approve. Services. Third District service-sector firms have maintained a modest pace of growth
overall since the last Beige Book. Resorts in the Poconos were still enjoying an extended ski
season, as their golf season was getting underway. Moderate growth through their winter season
was boosted by early spring holiday weekends. Expectations that the positive trend will continue
were buoyed by strong bookings for Memorial Day. Strong, early bookings for summer were
also reported by the operators of Delaware shore hotels, who report getting more inquiries from
New Jersey and New York residents this year. However, casino revenues for February fell by
double digits in Atlantic City and by nearly eight percent throughout Pennsylvania from the
prior-year levels. In other sectors, staffing firms reported small increases in billable hours over the past
month and project the trend to continue for three to six weeks based on their flow of work orders.
Activity at logistics and transport firms grew moderately. However, firms with defense-related
work and other entities dependent on federal money (e.g., higher education) are now anticipating
somewhat lower levels of employment and activity for the remainder of this year. Overall,
service-sector firms remain generally optimistic about future growth. Prices and Wages. Overall, price levels continued to increase slightly, similar to the
previous Beige Book. Manufacturing firms reported only modest cost pressures and a slight
decline in prices received – essentially unchanged from last period. Auto dealers reported no
changes in pricing. Homebuilders continued to note higher prices, especially for lumber and
labor costs. Higher-end homebuilders reported some ability to make price increases stick. Real
estate contacts continued to report that low-end house prices are firm or rising slightly, while
high-end home prices are still falling in most markets. Outside of homebuilders, contacts
continued to report that wages rose only slightly, if at all. Contacts continued to relay a wide
range of costs and strategies to provide medical insurance benefits for their employees; their
decision processes remain fraught with confusion and uncertainty.

 IV - 1 FOURTH DISTRICT – CLEVELAND Business activity in the Fourth District expanded at a moderate pace during the past six
weeks. Manufacturing orders and production were mostly higher. The momentum seen in
residential construction since the beginning of the year, including multi family, has been
maintained. Nonresidential construction activity increased slightly, but remains below levels
seen in the second half of last year. Retail sales volume between mid-February and mid-March
was higher relative to the lackluster post-holiday period, while new motor vehicle sales posted
moderate gains on a year-over-year basis. Conventional and unconventional natural gas and oil
production was stable, but a pickup is expected later in the year as additional gas processing
units come on line. Output at coal mines trended lower. Freight transport volume exceeded
projections made late last year. Demand for business and consumer credit was higher when
compared to early in the first quarter. Hiring was sluggish across industry sectors, although the pace has picked up among
home builders since the start of the year. Staffing-firm representatives reported that the number
of job openings and placements rose slightly, with vacancies found primarily in industrial
production. Wage pressures were contained. Input prices were stable, apart from increases in
construction materials. Manufacturing. Reports from District factories indicated that new orders and
production were mostly higher during the past six weeks. Companies seeing the most activity
were suppliers to the residential construction, shale gas, and transportation industries.
Manufacturers serving the defense and commercial building industries experienced some
weakening in new orders. Exports to Pacific Rim countries improved, while exports to Europe
diminished. Compared to a year ago, manufacturing activity was mixed. Steel producers and
service centers reported that the pickup in shipping volume early in the first quarter has leveled
off. Excess steel produced in China and Europe is now being imported into the United States in
larger quantities. Auto production at District plants rose at a moderate pace during February on a
month-over-month basis. Compared to a year ago, production numbers were little changed.
Many manufacturing contacts remain cautiously optimistic about near-term growth prospects. Capacity utilization rates stood within their normal ranges. Steel producers reported
reducing inventories during the past six weeks, while inventories at other factories held steady.
Capital expenditures were on plan for the fiscal year. Most outlays are allocated for technology
that will be used to enhance productivity. Little capacity expansion is planned. Raw material
and finished goods prices were flat or trended lower. Many manufacturers noted that their ability
to raise prices during 2013 is likely to be very limited. Manufacturing payrolls were stable and
wage pressures are contained. Real Estate. Sales of new and existing single-family homes continued on an upward
trend since our last report, and sales were higher than a year ago. Contracts were found mainly
in the mid- to higher-price-point categories. Demand for multi-family housing remains strong.
A developer of market-rate apartments described activity as very good. Another developer said

 IV - 2
that demand for affordable rental units is surging. While builders expressed confidence that the
improvement in the housing market will persist in the upcoming months, they still see the
appraisal process and the availability of financing as headwinds to more robust growth. Reports
indicated that list prices of new homes increased by 1 to 2 percent this year, which was attributed
to shrinking inventories and rising prices for building materials, especially lumber and drywall.
Builders have cut back on discounting. Nonresidential contractors saw a modest increase in activity, relative to the
January/February time period. The number of inquiries is rising, but many builders are
underbidding in an effort to keep their resources engaged. As a result, tight margins are being
compressed even further. Project work is found mainly in manufacturing, large multifamily
developments (affordable, market rate, and senior), and shale gas infrastructure. Our contacts
are cautious about near-term activity. Many builders pointed to uncertainty in the market and
clients who are unwilling to take risks at this time. In addition, the time-consuming process of
financing a project is holding back some clients. Little change was reported in prices of building
materials. General contractors (residential and nonresidential) expect subcontractors will attempt to
raise their rates and push through price increases for materials by the second half of this year.
The potential rise was attributed to a dwindling number of subcontracting businesses and
stronger demand. Residential builders are hiring at a moderate pace, especially field personnel.
Nonresidential builders are looking to hire a few project managers and back-office employees.
Concerns about difficulties in finding qualified workers and escalating healthcare benefit costs
were widespread. Consumer Spending. Most retailers reported that sales volume for the period from mid-
February through mid-March was higher relative to the previous 30-day period. Rising volume
was particularly evident in apparel and electronics. Store managers who experienced a downturn
in sales cited higher gasoline prices and taxes as contributing factors. Second-quarter sales are
expected to be up slightly, when compared to the same quarter last year. Vendor and shelf prices
held steady. A food producer commented that agricultural commodity prices, though elevated,
are fairly stable, and he anticipates little upward pressure on prices attributable to food during
2013. Capital expenditures were on plan for the fiscal year. One retail chain projected
significantly higher capital investment this year, but much of it is allocated for remodeling older
stores. No hiring is anticipated, except for staffing new stores. Year-to-date sales of new motor vehicles showed a moderate increase during February
compared to the same time period a year ago. A few dealers noted that cold weather had curbed
consumer enthusiasm. Buyers continue to prefer smaller, fuel-efficient cars and compact SUVs.
Large pick-up trucks were big sellers in regions with significant shale gas activity. New-vehicle
inventories were higher than most dealers would like. Our contacts are cautiously optimistic
about sales prospects for the year, with most projecting 5 percent to 10 percent growth over
2012. However, some are concerned about fiscal policy decisions and the potentially negative

 IV - 3
impact they could have on the economy and consumer spending. Sales of used vehicles declined
during February. Leasing is trending higher, which should help to replenish the used-vehicle
inventory. Financing continues to loosen except for those buyers with low credit scores. Dealers
are reluctant to add to their sales staff at this time. Banking. Demand for business credit has picked up since our last report. Although
requests originated from a broad range of sectors, commercial real estate and manufacturing
stood out. Loan pricing remains under pressure. Reports on consumer credit also showed a
small rise in demand, mainly for home-equity products and auto loans. Bankers noted a slight
drop-off in residential mortgage activity; however, there was a definite shift in applications from
refinancing to new purchase. Delinquency rates held steady or declined across consumer and
commercial loan categories. No changes were made to loan-application standards. Aggregate
core deposits grew; customers continue to transfer monies from non-liquid to liquid accounts.
Bankers remain very concerned about shrinking net interest margins. In response, some are
considering raising fees in all areas. On balance, there was little change in payrolls. Two
bankers reported rising employment numbers due to acquisitions. Energy. Coal production continued to trend down across the District, with lower
production projected for the near term. One producer commented that demand from electric
utilities has risen slightly due to an extended period of cold weather and an uptick in natural gas
prices. Spot prices for metallurgical and steam-coal are up somewhat. Output from conventional
and unconventional oil and natural gas wells was steady during the past couple of months. In the
wet gas regions of Ohio and West Virginia, output should begin to increase later in the year as
newly constructed gas processing units come on line. Well-head prices for oil and gas rose
slightly. Rig count in the District was stable during the first quarter. Capital expenditures were
at targeted levels, with little change expected. Production equipment and material prices were
flat across most categories. Oil and gas payrolls held steady, while coal operators reported
additional layoffs. Freight Transportation. For the most part, our contacts reported that shipping volume
was somewhat higher than expected for this time of year, although no product area stands out.
Freight executives are more optimistic about growth prospects than earlier in the year, and some
believe that their growth projections for 2013 may be too low. Diesel-fuel prices have started to
trend down from high levels, which carriers passed through via surcharges. Costs associated
with equipment and maintenance items were stable. Capital spending was generally down in the
first quarter of this year relative to late last year. However, our contacts believe that spending
will begin to pick up in the second quarter. One executive stated that he has an aggressive
spending plan in place, which includes capacity and footprint expansion. Hiring is for
replacement and capacity expansion. New hours-of-service regulations (federal) may prompt
additional hiring, but it will put upward pressure on shipping prices. Wage pressures are
contained.

 V-1 FIFTH DISTRICT–RICHMOND Overview. The District economy grew moderately overall in recent weeks, although activity
varied by sector. Manufacturing production continued to expand but at a somewhat slower pace.
Revenues at non-retail services firms steadied at moderate growth, and tourism strengthened. Retail sales
contracted, with the notable exception of robust light vehicle sales. Lending remained stable, with a slight
uptick in demand for residential mortgages. The residential real estate sector generally strengthened, and
commercial real estate and construction markets improved. Cold, wet weather hindered spring plantings
by farmers, while oil and natural gas production maintained a moderate pace during the past six weeks.
Labor markets were mixed since our last report. Manufacturers’ input and finished goods prices moved up
at a slightly slower rate, and wage increases also slowed. The pace of price change slowed at services
firms, while wage increases in that sector were more widespread. Retail prices rose more slowly, and
average retail wages declined. Manufacturing. Fifth District manufacturing production expanded at a somewhat slower pace
since our last report. A textile maker reported that his business was slow with the exception of automotive
products. He expected a pickup in non-automotive business during the next few months, however. A
producer of electrical components told us that business was poor in the U.S. but good in Europe and Latin
America. Additionally, a textile manufacturer indicated that while sales levels had improved, his outlook
remained cautious. Moreover, a dental equipment producer noted that work volumes had increased earlier
this year, but that the market recently softened. On the other hand, a manufacturer of technical foam
products commented that sales through the first quarter of 2013 had been solid and he expected a strong
year. According to our latest survey, prices grew at a slightly slower rate for both raw materials and
finished goods. Ports. We received a variety of reports on District port activity. A port executive commented that
European-bound vessels were leaving the port lighter than in the past, which he attributed to weaker
economies there. In particular, exports of construction and agricultural equipment were down since the
start of 2013. In a smaller District port, container shipments matched year-ago levels, while exports of
lumber and plywood recently picked up, and corn and grain exports from the Midwest were up over last
year’s low, drought-related levels. A contact in West Virginia remarked on port bottlenecks of coal
exports. Container traffic increased at larger District ports, with continued strength in trade of auto parts.
Drivers of import growth in recent weeks were consumer housing goods such as furniture and flooring.
The inland port in Greer, South Carolina remained on target to officially open in the third quarter of 2013;
that port is expected to shift cargo from trucks to railroads. Retail. Retail sales fell in recent weeks in most categories, and shopper traffic was down. In
Virginia Beach, a store manager at a chain discount store commented that persistent cold weather

 V-2
softened overall sales, particularly sales of seasonal items. In contrast, a few surveyed retailers and
wholesalers in construction-related lines indicated that revenues rose over the reporting period. Also, auto
sales remained constant at high levels. Consumer confidence, improved stability in middle-class home
values, and low interest rates underpinned strong sales and good performance on auto financing. Contacts
in the industry noted that used car prices remained relatively high, narrowing the spread relative to new
car prices. Survey respondents indicated that overall, retail price increases were less prevalent since our
last report. Services. Activity at services firms remained steady at a moderate pace. Seasonal businesses such
as tax services and landscaping reported higher revenues, while most other services providers noted little
change. Prices at services firms rose at a slower pace, according to our latest survey. Tourism generally increased over the past month, although most areas reported delayed spring
weather. Cold weather in the nation’s capital moved the Cherry Blossom Festival’s peak bloom time into
April. A contact on the outer banks of North Carolina commented that despite cool weather, Easter and
spring break brought plenty of tourists. In addition, an upscale resort in western North Carolina had
higher bookings. A contact in Charleston, South Carolina noted that the addition of a national airline is
expected to strengthen the local hospitality industry. Several hoteliers and rental agents across North
Carolina expected to be able to raise transient rates by three to six percent this year, but they anticipated a
decline in government-rate bookings as a result of sequestration. Finance. Loan demand remained relatively stable since our last assessment. Although most
bankers reported a slight uptick in demand for residential mortgages, they noted that demand for both
commercial mortgages and other business loans flattened. An exception was a banker in North Carolina
who cited a modest increase in business loan demand driven by the need to replace assets. In addition, no
significant changes in delinquencies or credit quality were reported, apart from improvement reported by
an Eastern Shore banker and a West Virginia contact. Bankers indicated that competition continued to
intensify, compressing already-tight margins. A few lenders said that their competitors were lowering
collateral requirements and fixing interest rates for a longer period, just to close deals. Contacts also
reported a decrease in customers’ willingness to take on debt. For example, a Virginia banker observed
that prospective homebuyers now request a specific monthly payment and no longer inquire about the
maximum amount for which they could qualify. Real Estate. Residential real estate activity generally strengthened in this reporting period. A
contact in North Carolina stated that residential real estate was booming and inventories were low. A
Realtor in the Washington, D.C. area reported an increase in purchases for renovation and resale. He
stated that inventory was down thirty-five percent from last year, and some developers were offering all
cash, non-contingent contracts for well above list price. Similarly, a Realtor in the metro-Richmond area
said foot traffic rose, which he attributed to the limited supply of homes, pent up demand, and low interest

 V-3
rates. A contact in Charlotte reported that low inventories of residential building materials had put
building permits on hold. Similarly, a source in Hampton Roads, Virginia reported that sequestration had
put potential buyers on the sidelines. Commercial real estate and construction markets improved since our last report. A Richmond
Realtor reported a steady increase in leasing activity. A source in Charlotte cited a rise in land and retail
investment transactions and more hospitality-related renovations. Most contacts described a tight supply
of Class A office space, with positive absorption and declining vacancy rates. Several Realtors said that
discounts could still be found for Class B or C space. A representative of a large construction firm in
Baltimore reported that activity was very strong, especially for healthcare buildings and data centers, and
the outlook was “extremely positive.” A contact in the Washington, D.C. area also reported several large
projects under construction. Agriculture and Natural Resources. Cold temperatures and wet weather delayed land
preparation and hindered spring plantings in the agricultural sector. Hay supplies were running low in
some regions, resulting in higher demand for supplemental feeding. However, a contact on the Eastern
Shore of Maryland stated that poultry production and agriculture were doing well, grain and land prices
were good, and the overall outlook was positive. Conventional oil and natural gas production maintained a moderate pace and the rig count in
West Virginia was little changed since our last report. Coal production declined. A source in West
Virginia attributed the drop to displacement of coal by natural gas, although coal exports had partially
offset lower domestic demand. Labor Markets. Assessments of labor market activity were mixed since our last report. On the
one hand, manufacturing firms in the Carolinas reported temporary layoffs due to softness in orders, and
contacts in sectors from real estate to wholesale trade to manufacturing said that they were reducing staff
or not expanding due to the Affordable Care Act. On the other hand, a Maryland firm planned to add 200
to 250 engineers as a result of the recent pick-up in construction, and a lumber firm increased its average
employee work week. Moreover, contacts from a number of temp agencies cited stronger demand for
workers, resulting in part from uncertainty about federal fiscal policies. The highest demand was for
information technology workers; short supply pushed up their wages. Demand for telecommunication
workers picked up, as carriers upgraded systems. Additionally, demand for automobile industry workers
strengthened. According to our latest surveys, average wages at non-retail services firms rose more
quickly, while manufacturing wages rose at a slower pace in recent weeks and retail wages declined.

 VI-1 SIXTH DISTRICT – ATLANTA Summary. Sixth District business contacts reported that economic activity continued to
advance at a modest pace from mid-February through March. Reports across sectors were generally
positive and expectations for the coming months remained optimistic. Retail reports were mixed with some retailers citing improved sales and others feeling the
pinch from a constrained consumer. Hospitality contacts reported healthy activity in both leisure
and business travel. Homebuilders and brokers experienced further improvements in sales and
prices of new and existing homes, and inventories continued to decline on a year-over-year basis.
Commercial contractors noted a strong year to date as construction levels improved from late last
year. Overall, manufacturing activity remained positive as new orders and production increased.
Loan demand remained steady according to bankers. Payrolls continued to grow at a tepid pace as
firms remained reluctant in hiring due to uncertainty over fiscal policy and healthcare reform.
Prices remained stable and most firms continued to report having relatively little pricing power. Consumer Spending and Tourism. District merchants reported mixed results from mid-
February through March. Several contacts indicated improvements in profit margins and sales over
the last three months, while others noted that they experienced the result of consumers taking a hit
with the expiration of the payroll tax cut, increased fuel prices, a delay in income tax refunds, and
increased health insurance premiums. Yet, even with these challenges, most retailers remained
reasonably upbeat. District automotive contacts cited favorable sales for the same time period. Travel and tourism activity remained robust and continued to exceed expectations,
especially in the leisure segment. Although government and business bookings decreased due to
location restrictions and/or budgetary constraints, overall demand remained healthy. Concerns that
gas prices could dampen summer travel continued; however, hospitality contacts anticipate activity
to still exceed 2012 levels. International visitation for leisure and convention travel continued to be
a strong contributor to growth despite the strength of the dollar. Real Estate and Construction. According to District brokers, housing markets across the
region continued to improve. Recent sales growth was described as strong on a year-over-year
basis. Existing home inventories continued to contract and brokers noted that this was restraining
sales. Furthermore, many reported receiving multiple offers on properties, particularly at the low-
end of the market. Most indicated that home prices rose modestly compared with a year earlier.
Appreciation was strongest among Florida contacts. Overall, the outlook for existing home sales
growth over the next several months remained positive.

 VI-2 Similar to our last report, homebuilders reported that recent new home sales were ahead of
year earlier levels, and they noted improving levels of buyer traffic across the region. Just over half
said that new home inventories were below the year-ago level. The portion of builders
characterizing home prices as up relative to a year ago also rose compared to our previous report.
Reports also cited that new home construction was ahead of last year’s level. Contacts remarked
that access to construction financing had improved somewhat from late last year, but the majority
continued to report that the number of actual loans made was still short of demand. The outlook for
construction activity and new home sales over the next several months remained positive with most
anticipating levels to be slightly ahead on a year-over-year basis. District commercial real estate contacts indicated that the first quarter of this year had
started off solid compared with the end of last year. Commercial brokers reported that net
absorption was positive. Contacts also noted growing optimism as businesses in the office and
industrial sector began to position themselves for growth over the next 12 to 18 months. However,
the demand for retail space remained soft across most of the region. Contacts remarked that
investor interest had spread to secondary and tertiary markets, particularly in the apartment sector
where demand had been especially strong. Commercial contractors cited that construction
improved from late last year and backlogs were up as well. Activity was dominated by build-to-suit
projects. Most contacts expect District commercial real estate markets to improve further this year. Manufacturing and Transportation. Regional manufacturers reported that activity
expanded for the third consecutive month in March. Increases in new orders, production,
employment, and finished inventory contributed to the highest level of manufacturing activity since
May 2012. Contacts noted profit margins slightly improved from mid-February through March.
However, they do not expect production to be as high in the coming months as they had in our
previous report. District trucking contacts reported a slowdown in volume, citing reduced imports of retail
goods from west coast ports, along with poor weather conditions. Still, volumes were ahead of year
earlier levels. Strong movement of housing-related materials was cited as the housing recovery
continued. Railroad companies described activity as flat to slightly down. Chemicals and oil and
gas showed the strongest growth, while coal reflected some softening, particularly in export of
thermal coal. Intermodal growth remained solid and the movement of forest products also
improved. Domestic air freight traffic was up slightly, and international tonnage grew compared to
the same period last year, marked by increases in Asian volumes and exports to Europe and Latin
America, specifically Brazil.

 VI-3 Banking and Finance. Driven by historically low rates, consumers continued refinancing
mortgage loans and businesses continued restructuring debt. Competition remained intense for high
quality loan applicants and community bankers noted that large regional and national banking
organizations were more willing to offer lower fixed-rate, longer-termed loans to attract these
customers. Many community banking contacts indicated that their institution had exited the
mortgage lending business altogether because of increased regulations. Some stated that
commercial real estate loan demand had increased, particularly for branded hotel construction,
healthcare, and multi-family projects. Banks also cited more willingness to lend to small
businesses; however, the overall demand for loans and credit line usage continued to remain low.
Credit spreads remained tight and some bankers reported downward pressure on loan pricing. Employment and Prices. Since our last report, payroll growth continued to increase at a
lackluster pace across the District, though contacts continued to report that uncertainty over fiscal
policy and healthcare reform were contributing to reluctance in hiring. In Florida and Georgia, the
two states in the District with the largest concentrations of employment, unemployment rates
declined slightly since the previous report, while unemployment rates have fluctuated in the four
other states due to changes in the size of those states’ labor force. Input costs remained mostly stable. Increases in prices for fuel and construction materials
were viewed by most firms as transitory. Year-ahead unit cost expectations were 1.9 percent in
February and March, roughly unchanged since the beginning of the year, according to the Atlanta
Fed’s Business Inflation Expectations Survey. Most businesses noted very little pricing power.
Exceptions were transportation contacts who were able to successfully cover cost increases using
fuel surcharges, and retailers, whose profit margins improved as sales levels ticked up somewhat
over the reporting period. Natural Resources and Agriculture. The energy industry remained an especially bright
spot in the region. In particular, projects to increase the Gulf Coast’s liquefied natural gas (LNG)
export capacity—through investment in new LNG export facilities at ports and new transportation
infrastructure, like pipeline and LNG tanks—were strong drivers of capital and labor demand. Drought conditions improved significantly in Georgia, southeastern Alabama, and the
Florida panhandle. Since the last report, monthly soybean and corn prices rose moderately, while
broiler prices reached record highs. Cotton prices continued to be below year-ago levels, but rose
modestly since the last report. Driven by increasing global demand and low interest rates, contacts
reported continued investment in new, more efficient equipment reducing both labor and fuel costs.

 VII-1 SEVENTH DISTRICT—CHICAGO Summary. Economic activity in the Seventh District expanded at a modest pace in March.
In general, contacts remained cautiously optimistic about the economic outlook. Growth in
consumer spending edged lower, while growth in business spending picked up. Manufacturing
production growth slowed. Residential construction continued to rise at a moderate pace, and
nonresidential construction increased slightly. Credit conditions remained favorable. Cost pressures
were largely unchanged, and wage pressures remained moderate. Prices for corn, soybeans, milk,
and hogs fell, while cattle prices were little changed on net. Consumer spending. Growth in consumer spending edged lower in March. Retailers
reported higher inventory levels in part because lingering winter weather delayed the introduction of
spring-related merchandise sitting in their warehouses. Some contacts indicated that the end of the
payroll tax credit was having an increasingly negative effect on retail sales. Nonetheless, sales
during the Easter holiday were largely in-line with expectations. Home improvement and clothing
stores reported lower sales than during the previous reporting period, but discount stores noted an
increase in sales of apparel. Sales of furniture and appliances also rose, buoyed by the recent
upswing in the housing market. In contrast, auto sales leveled off. Dealers are still optimistic that
sales will rise further year than last year, and are building inventory for the spring selling season.
Used vehicle prices remained elevated, boosting trade-in values. In addition, dealers noted that
customers’ credit profiles continue to improve, allowing more of them to qualify for auto loans. Business spending. Growth in business spending picked up in March. Inventory levels
increased slightly, and spending on equipment and software and on structures picked up. However,
a number of manufacturing contacts reiterated that they plan to make capital expenditures this year
only as necessary, delaying investments because of uncertainty surrounding the economic outlook.
Labor market conditions improved slightly. Hiring continued to increase. Contacts indicated that
there is still strong demand for talent in skilled professional and manufacturing jobs, and that
shortages of qualified candidates remain in many of these occupations. In addition, a staffing firm
reported an increase in demand for its services from the manufacturing sector. Other signs of
improving labor demand also were reported, such as greater competition among employers to fill
internships this year and a stronger job market for new college graduates. Construction/real estate. Construction and real estate activity increased in March. Demand
for residential construction rose, reflecting both continued strength in multifamily construction and

 VII-2
an improving single-family housing market. The gains have helped buoy confidence among
homebuilders. Development of single-family homes in urban areas picked up some after years of
limited activity. More generally, home prices have increased for both new and existing homes, with
inventories of homes for sale shrinking. Growth in nonresidential construction, particularly for
smaller retail stores and in the industrial sector, continued to be moderate. Commercial real estate
conditions also continued to improve, with rents increasing and vacancy rates decreasing. Manufacturing. Growth in manufacturing production slowed in March. Several contacts
speculated that the uncertainty surrounding sequestration had affected their customer’s orders.
However, they had yet to see much evidence of this in their shipments. That said, a contact did note
that his military customers were actively seeking to squeeze out any potential inefficiencies in their
supply chain in an effort to lower their costs in anticipation of tighter future defense budgets.
Demand for steel was flat, and steel service center inventories were slightly above desirable levels.
Specialty metal manufacturers reported declines in new orders, although backlogs remained
elevated. Activity in the energy sector was mixed, with natural gas-related industries reporting
stronger activity but the coal industry remaining weaker. Demand for heavy equipment was also
mixed. Mining activity, particularly for coal, continued to decline. However, contacts indicated that
construction equipment distributors and rental companies remain optimistic, pointing to the ongoing
recovery in the housing market as a potential source of strength in the second half of the year.
Demand for heavy and medium-duty trucks remained firm; and the auto industry continued to be a
source of strength. Manufacturers of building materials and consumer products also noted an
increase in demand with the exception of lawn and garden equipment. Banking/finance. Credit conditions remained favorable over the reporting period. Credit
spreads and financial market volatility continued to be low. Banking contacts reported moderate
growth in business lending, especially to small businesses and for the purposes of expanding and
upgrading of facilities. Real estate lending also reportedly picked up. Increased competition for
borrowers was noted to be putting downward pressure on pricing and loosening commercial and
industrial loan standards. Consumer borrowing also rose modestly, with a further increase in auto
lending reported over the reporting period. Several financial contacts noted that the recent rise in
equity and home prices appear to be boosting consumer confidence and spending. That said, a
financial services industry contact indicated that consumer borrowing had been lower than
anticipated given recent increases in consumer spending.

 VII-3 Prices/costs. Cost pressures were roughly unchanged, on balance, in March. Commodity
prices were down slightly, and energy prices remained elevated. Scrap metal prices continued to
decline, and a contact in the industry speculated that weaker demand from China was largely to
blame. Contacts did note some upward price pressure on raw materials such as chemicals, lumber,
and concrete as well as on transportation costs, but said that pass-through to downstream prices was
limited. Retailers reported mostly modest wholesale price increases. Wage pressures remained
moderate, although several contacts indicated increasing concern over the rising cost of healthcare.
Other cost pressures that were mentioned included higher property taxes and regulatory costs. Agriculture. Cold weather delayed field work during the reporting period, but there was
little concern expressed by contacts that planting would be seriously delayed. Corn and soybean
prices dropped based on expectations of a larger crop this year and current stocks that are not as
tight as anticipated. Contacts indicated that the number of soybean acres should be higher than the
prior year in the District, while corn acres should be lower. Farmers seemed to increase their levels
of crop insurance relative to last year. Milk prices moved lower during the reporting period, but
remained above the levels of a year ago. Hog prices fell and were under year-ago levels. Cattle
prices moved sideways during the reporting period, but were below the levels of a year ago. Some
livestock producers were reportedly taking advantage of low long-term interest rates by refinancing
and lengthening the maturity of their debt.

 VIII-1 Eighth District - St. Louis
Summary The economy of the Eighth District has expanded at a moderate pace since our previous
report. Recent reports of planned activity in manufacturing have been positive, while recent
reports of planned activity in the service sector have been mixed. Residential real estate market
conditions have continued to improve throughout most of the District, and commercial and
industrial real estate market conditions have also improved in many areas of the District. Total
lending at a sample of small and midsized District banks remained largely unchanged from mid-
December 2012 to mid-March 2013.
Manufacturing and Other Business Activity Reports of plans for manufacturing activity have been positive since our previous report.
Several manufacturing firms reported significant plans to add workers, expand operations, or
open new facilities in the Eighth District, while a smaller number of manufacturers reported
plans to lay off workers. Firms in printing, food, housewares, automobile parts, jewelry, metal,
lumber products, and beverage manufacturing plan to hire new employees and expand operations
in the near future. In contrast, a firm that manufactures aircraft parts announced plans to lay off
workers in the District. Reports of planned activity in the District’s service sector have been mixed since our
previous report. Firms in social and legal services reported plans for new hiring and expansion in
the District. In contrast, firms in religious, information technology, business support, healthcare
distribution, data processing, print and publishing, and transportation services reported plans to
lay-off employees. Reports from retail contacts showed increases in sales and new store

 VIII-2
openings. Sales reports from auto dealers have generally been positive, and a number of contacts
in the District announced plans to open new dealership locations.
Real Estate and Construction Home sales have continued to increase throughout most of the Eighth District on a year-
over-year basis. Compared with the same period in 2012, February 2013 year-to-date home sales
were up 12 percent in Louisville, 14 percent in Little Rock, 4 percent in Memphis, and 11
percent in St. Louis. February 2013 year-to-date single-family housing permits increased in the
majority of the District metro areas compared with the same period in 2012. Permits increased 16
percent in Memphis and 36 percent in St. Louis. In contrast, permits decreased 8 percent in Little
Rock and remained unchanged in Louisville over the same period. Commercial and industrial real estate market conditions have continued to improve
throughout most of the District. A contact in northeast Arkansas reported that commercial real
estate activity was strong in the Jonesboro and Paragould area but remained flat in other areas.
Contacts in Louisville noted that vacancy rates of commercial and industrial properties
improved. A contact in central Arkansas reported an increase of commercial real estate activity
in Little Rock, and a contact in St. Louis reported strong office leasing activity in the northwest
and south portions of St. Louis County. Commercial and industrial construction activity is
picking up throughout most of the District. Contacts in south central Kentucky continued to
report that commercial real estate construction was strong in the downtown Bowling Green area,
while contacts in Louisville reported that industrial real estate construction was strong in the
Shepherdsville area. A contact in Arkansas also reported several ongoing commercial
construction projects in southwest and west Little Rock.

 VIII-3
Banking and Finance Total loans outstanding at a sample of small and midsized District banks were virtually
unchanged from mid-December 2012 to mid-March 2013. Real estate lending, which accounts
for 72.8 percent of total loans, increased 1.9 percent. Commercial and industrial loans,
accounting for 15.1 percent of total loans, increased 3.9 percent. Loans to individuals, accounting
for 4.7 percent of total loans were largely unchanged. All other loans, accounting for 7.3 percent
of total loans, decreased 14.1 percent. During the same period, total deposits at these banks
increased 4.3 percent.
Agriculture and Natural Resources Farmers in the District’s states expect to plant more sorghum and soybeans in 2013 than
was planted in 2012; they also anticipate planting less corn, cotton, and rice. Additionally,
Arkansas and Mississippi farmers expect to significantly increase corn acreage while reducing
cotton and rice acreage. As of early April, over 90 percent of the District’s winter wheat crop
was rated in fair or better condition, and over 60 percent was rated as good to excellent. Year-to-
date coal production in the District’s states (excluding eastern Kentucky) at the end of February
was 4.7 percent lower than the same period last year. Similarly, coal production for February was
5.7 percent lower than February 2012.

 IX-1 NINTH DISTRICT--MINNEAPOLIS
The Ninth District economy grew moderately. Increased activity was noted in consumer
spending, tourism, professional services and manufacturing. Construction and real estate
grew at a fast pace, the energy and agriculture sectors were steady at high levels, while
mining slowed. Labor markets tightened somewhat, and wage increases were moderate.
Overall price increases were modest.
Consumer Spending and Tourism
Consumer spending increased moderately. March sales at a Minneapolis-St. Paul area
restaurant chain were up about 6 percent from a year ago; demand for catering services
was very strong. Sales activity at a Montana mall was level from a year earlier, but
warmer weather was helping boost traffic over the past few weeks. Meanwhile, same-
store sales at a Minneapolis area mall were down slightly, while cold, wintry weather
during March reduced traffic levels. A Minnesota auto dealer noted a solid start to 2013,
and is cautiously optimistic for a very good year. Truck sales were strong at dealerships
in eastern North Dakota. The winter tourism season finished stronger than last year. Ample snow cover and
cold temperatures kept winter tourism active during March in northern Minnesota and
Wisconsin. A travel agency in Minnesota noted that leisure travel to warm-weather
destinations was softer than last year as airfare was up from a year ago; however,
bookings to Europe were higher.
Construction and Real Estate
Commercial construction activity continued to increase at a very fast pace since the last
report. The value of March commercial permits in Billings, Mont., increased over 900
percent from last year. In Sioux Falls, S.D., March permits were $14 million, up from
nearly zero a year ago. A contact at a Fargo, N.D., real estate company noted that “the
medical field is building like crazy.” Residential construction increased rapidly from a
year ago. The value of March residential building permits in Billings nearly doubled from
last year, and the value of March permits in Sioux Falls was up over 63 percent from a
year ago. In the Minneapolis-St. Paul area, March residential permits were up 21 percent
compared with March 2012. Activity in commercial real estate markets increased since the last report. A
Minneapolis-St. Paul area commercial real estate broker noted increased strength in the
office and industrial markets. Minneapolis-St. Paul office vacancy rates during the first

 IX-2
quarter of 2013 were down 1.9 percentage points from a year ago to 17.7 percent. A
Fargo broker noted that recent activity has increased a “fair” amount and that office
vacancy is at 4.8 percent and warehouse vacancy is at 1.6 percent. Residential real estate
market activity increased at a strong pace. Recent home sales were up 12 percent from
the same period a year ago in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area; the inventory of homes for
sale was down 30 percent, and median sale prices rose 16 percent. In the Sioux Falls area,
March home sales were up 5 percent, inventory was down 18 percent and the median sale
price increased 6 percent relative to a year earlier.
Services
Activity at professional business services firms increased at a moderate pace since the
last report. A home inspector noted an increase in business due to more homeowners who
were considering selling. A Minnesota travel agency noted an increase in business travel
compared with a year ago. A Minnesota freight trade group expects volumes and rates to
increase this year. A financial institution noted a significant increase in demand for loans.
Manufacturing
The District manufacturing sector continued to grow since the last report. A March
survey of purchasing managers by Creighton University (Omaha, Neb.) found that
manufacturing activity increased in Minnesota and the Dakotas. A Minnesota
architectural glass producer announced a $30 million expansion at a plant. A
transportation vehicle maker in Minnesota was expanding its facilities. A sawmill in
Montana restarted production after sitting idle for more than four years. Meanwhile, a
paper mill in Minnesota cut production.
Energy and mining
Activity in the energy sector was steady at high levels, while mining slowed. Late-March
oil and gas exploration decreased slightly in Montana and North Dakota from the last
report, but production remained near record levels. A $2.2 billion modernization of
Minnesota’s electrical grid is under way, with an estimated $1 billion to be spent this
year. A diesel refinery broke ground in North Dakota, and a separate $400 million
refinery that will break ground this year was also announced. A copper-nickel mining
development in the Upper Peninsula halted construction in response to “economic
headwinds” and volatility in metals markets. An iron ore mine in the Upper Peninsula
idled at the end of March.

 IX-3
Agriculture
The District agricultural sector remained in strong condition heading into the planting
season, though persistent drought remained a threat. Early indications of planting
intentions suggest District farmers plan to increase corn, soybean and hay acreage this
year, with a reduction in wheat acres. An agricultural cooperative announced $50 million
in investments in the District, including a grain terminal in North Dakota and a fertilizer
depot in Minnesota. Prices received by farmers increased in March from a year earlier for
wheat, corn, soybeans, hay, chicken, milk and eggs; prices decreased for cattle, hogs,
turkeys and dry beans.
Employment, Wages and Prices
Labor markets tightened somewhat. A company recently announced plans to add 300
information technology consultant jobs in South Dakota and North Dakota. A retailer
recently announced plans to build a distribution center in Minnesota that would create
300 jobs. Businesses in eastern Montana noted continued challenges attracting and
retaining quality workers due to competition from the nearby oil-drilling region. A record
number of companies participated in a job fair in eastern South Dakota, reflecting the
relatively high availability of jobs in the area. However, a Minnesota food company laid
off 125 workers. Overall wage increases were moderate. According to a recent St. Cloud (Minn.)
Area Quarterly Business Report, 48 percent of respondents expect to increase
compensation over the next six months, while 49 percent expect no change. In last year’s
survey, 42 percent expected to increase compensation, while 54 percent expected no
change. A contract agreement was recently reached with a union representing janitors in
Minnesota that would improve wages and health care coverage. Overall price increases were modest. Minnesota gasoline prices decreased about
20 cents per gallon from late February to early April. Some metals prices also decreased
since the last report. Meanwhile, bank directors noted increases in health care insurance
costs. Prices for framing lumber have increased steadily over the past couple months.

 X-1 TENTH DISTRICT - KANSAS CITY The Tenth District economy expanded moderately in March, and expectations for future
activity strengthened. District contacts reported stronger-than-expected consumer spending and
anticipated additional gains this spring. Improvements in residential and commercial real estate
market conditions exceeded typical seasonal trends with robust sales, higher prices and brisk
construction activity. Although District manufacturing activity softened, factory managers
projected a rebound in orders, production, and shipments. Bankers reported stable loan demand,
improving loan quality, and stronger deposits. Persistent drought hindered winter crop
development, while crop insurance payments lessened the demand for operating loans. District
contacts expected oil drilling activity to strengthen as seasonal demand supports higher oil and
gasoline prices. The prices of raw materials for manufacturing, construction and food services
rose, with some pass-through to finished goods prices. Though more companies anticipated
hiring additional workers in the coming months, wage pressures remained subdued except for
specialized positions at transportation, high-tech, energy and construction firms. Consumer Spending. Consumer spending was stronger than expected in March and was
expected to strengthen further in the coming months. After falling during the last survey period,
District retailers reported modest, but stronger-than-expected sales in March and positive
expectations for future sales growth. Lower-priced items such as apparel and hardware sold well,
while demand for higher-priced premium and custom goods remained weak. Some store owners
noted that the payroll tax increase and cold weather during March limited sales growth. Auto
sales bounced back in March, and most dealers were optimistic that sales would rise further
during the next few months. Smaller cars and used vehicles continued to sell well, while dealers
reported slower demand for larger cars, trucks and sport-utility vehicles. Tourism contacts
reported a rise in visitor counts compared to the last survey and expected a seasonal increase in
tourism spending with warmer weather. District hoteliers indicated that occupancy rates rose
with a slight drop in average room rental rates. Restaurant owners reported solid sales and
slightly higher average check amounts. Real Estate and Construction. Residential real estate activity rose sharply in March,
and commercial real estate activity strengthened. In addition to a seasonal rise in home sales
during the spring, real estate agents commented that pent-up buyer demand, an improving

 X-2
economy and low interest rates were driving stronger sales. Low- and mid-priced homes in good
condition continued to sell quickly, and some real estate contacts noted increased demand for
investment properties. Brisk sales and lower home inventories spurred further home price
increases. Residential mortgage lenders reported a jump in loan applications for home purchases,
and some real estate contacts were concerned that appraisals were not reflecting current market
conditions amid rapid price increases. Housing starts were up sharply from the previous survey,
but some builders noted that a lack of available sub-contractors could constrain construction in
the coming months. Sales at construction supply firms rose with increased building activity.
Commercial real estate markets improved, and District contacts expected additional strength in
coming months. New commercial construction edged up and was expected to gain momentum as
vacancy rates trended down and rents moved higher. Commercial sales activity and real estate
prices rose well above year-ago levels. Developers reported no change in access to credit. Manufacturing and Other Business Activity. After softening in March, District
manufacturing activity was expected to rebound in the coming months, and sales at
transportation and high-tech service firms improved during the survey period. District
manufacturing activity remained slightly below year-ago levels driven by weaker durable goods
production, particularly for machinery and fabricated metal products. In contrast, non-durable
goods production rose modestly with an uptick in food and chemical processing. After falling
during the last survey period, the volume of new orders and shipments stabilized in March and
was expected to strengthen during the next six months. Export orders, however, remained weak.
Looking ahead, more plant managers planned to add workers and increase work hours to handle
an expected rise in production. Some District factories and transportation firms were also making
capital investments. Trucking traffic picked up, but qualified drivers were still in short supply.
Business activity at high-tech firms expanded further, and sales were expected to remain strong.
Some high-tech companies reported difficulty finding software developers and experienced IT
technicians. Banking. In the recent survey period, bankers generally reported stable loan demand,
improving loan quality, and stronger deposits. Bankers reported steady demand for commercial
and industrial loans, residential and commercial real estate loans, and consumer installment
loans. Although residential real estate loan demand increased for purchases, bankers noted fewer
loans for home refinancing. Bankers reported that interest rates trended lower on commercial and

 X-3
industrial loans. A majority of bankers reported improved loan quality compared to a year ago,
and they expected further improvements during the next six months. Credit standards remained
largely unchanged in all major loan categories, and respondents reported stronger deposit
growth. Agriculture. Agricultural growing conditions remained poor in most of the District.
March precipitation provided little relief to persistent drought, and the winter wheat crop was
still in fair to poor condition. Despite recent declines, crop prices remained elevated due to short
crop supplies, and District farmers did not plan to significantly alter their current crop mix.
Livestock operators continued to post losses with falling cattle and hog prices and high feed
costs. Pork exports remained weak, but beef exports edged up, partly due to less restricted trade
with Japan. Operating loan demand remained soft as crop insurance payments bolstered farm
income. Farmland values rose further and were expected to stay elevated. Energy. In the energy sector, District activity remained solid and was expected to
strengthen slightly heading into summer. An upswing in oil prices and an anticipated seasonal
rise in demand kept the number of active oil rigs in the District above year-ago levels. Even
though colder than usual temperatures reduced natural gas inventories and boosted prices, the
effect was expected to be temporary and the number of active natural gas rigs in the District
dipped during March. Looking ahead, some District contacts were concerned that permitting
delays could constrain oil and gas exploration. Wyoming’s coal production remained well below
year-ago levels as more electricity was being generated from natural gas. District ethanol
production held steady, but profit margins improved recently due to lower corn prices. Wages and Prices. Wage pressures remained relatively subdued during the survey
period, raw materials prices climbed, and some finished goods prices rose. More firms indicated
they would be adding staff in the coming months to handle an anticipated increase in business
activity, but most were not planning to raise wages. However, some companies, particularly
those recruiting workers with specialized skills such as engineers, software developers, and
commercial truck drivers, were increasing salaries. The cost of raw materials for manufacturing
remained elevated, and some firms were raising finished goods prices. Some construction supply
companies reported passing along higher prices for building materials, particularly lumber, to
customers. Retail prices edged up, and retailers expected prices to trend higher during the next
few months. Restaurant owners planned further menu price increases due to rising food costs.

 XI-1
  ELEVENTH DISTRICT—DALLAS The Eleventh District economy expanded at a slightly faster pace over the past six weeks than
during the previous reporting period, when growth was moderate. Many manufacturing firms noted that
activity increased since the last report. In the nonfinancial services sector, legal and accounting demand
increased, although staffing firms reported sluggish demand. Retail sales and auto sales were up. Robust
housing demand led to price gains, and commercial real estate activity remained strong. Lenders noted
moderate growth in loan demand, and activity in the energy sector remained at high levels. Drought
conditions remained prevalent in the agricultural sector. Reporting firms said prices remained stable
overall, and there were limited reports of wage pressure. Employment levels were steady to up. Prices Most responding firms said prices were stable, although housing contacts said home prices
increased at a fast pace, and cotton prices increased according to agriculture contacts. Staffing firms noted
no change in rates, and accounting firms said rates were flat to slightly up. Food producers said selling
prices were up since January but do not expect more increases going forward. One airline said ticket
prices were up slightly. Retail prices and auto prices were steady. Financial services contacts said loan
pricing was flat to down. Oil prices fell slightly, as the price of WTI averaged under $94 per barrel over
the past six weeks. A late winter reduced natural gas inventories and pushed prices above $3.65. Gasoline
and diesel prices increased since the last report. Labor Market Employment held steady or increased at most responding firms. Food
manufacturers and airlines said employment had increased, and reports of scattered hiring came from
some accounting and finance firms, retailers, auto dealers and transportation manufacturers. Several
contacts noted difficulty finding qualified people to fill open positions, particularly in banking, auto sales
and manufacturing. Staffing firms said the supply of labor was tight in the Houston energy sector. Wage pressures remained largely subdued, although wage increases for experienced or top-
performing workers were reported in accounting, legal and financial services. Increased labor costs were
also noted in energy services. Manufacturing Construction-related manufacturers said demand was flat to up slightly. A
lumber contact noted a seasonal increase in demand for the first time in several years. A cement producer
said demand remained strong, particularly for residential construction projects. Expectations among
construction-related producers are for increases in demand, and contacts believe 2013 will be stronger
than 2012. Fabricated metals producers reported a broad-based increase in demand over the reporting
period. Demand reports from primary metals manufacturers were mixed and below year-ago levels. Reports on high tech orders were mixed across customer groups. Semiconductor producers
reported stronger demand from industrial users, such as automotive, but continued weak demand from

 XI-2
 
communication device and personal computer manufacturers. Most contacts expect moderate
improvement over the next three to six months. Demand for paper products fell over the reporting period; contacts remained cautious in their
outlooks but expect to see an increase in May or June. Food contacts noted demand was much better than
anticipated and was up from the last report and from a year ago. Respondents were making significant
capital expenditures in anticipation of further increases in activity. Transportation manufacturers noted a pickup in demand. Sales of recreational vehicles increased
after experiencing a seasonal slump during the last reporting period. Demand for aviation equipment
continued to rise due to a recent large project. Transportation manufacturing contacts expect 2013 to be
about the same or better than 2012. Petrochemicals producers said Gulf Coast chemical production was stronger than a year ago.
Contacts noted refinery operating rates and margins were up over the reporting period, partly due to
normal seasonal trends. Retail Sales Retail sales were up since the previous report and from a year ago, according to
contacts. Texas continued to perform well, and according to one national retailer the rate of sales growth
in Texas outperformed the nation during the reporting period. Prices remained stable since the last report.
Some contacts added employees in line with expanding operations. Outlooks for the quarter ranged from
cautiously positive to good, and contacts expect steady growth for the remainder of the year. Automobile sales were strong and picked up since the last report, partly due to seasonality.
Inventories varied by manufacturer, but all contacts noted inventories were slightly lower than desired.
Selling prices held steady, as the market remained very competitive. Head count was up slightly from a
year ago, and hours worked were flat over the reporting period. Outlooks for the second quarter and the
rest of the year were good. Uncertainty and increasing expenses are challenges that dealerships continue
to face. Nonfinancial Services Staffing firms said demand was flat or down since the last report.
Responding placement firms noted activity in most sectors was sluggish, with the exception of energy-
related activity in Houston and overall demand for residential construction workers. Outlooks were
mixed, but better than earlier in the year. Accounting firms noted continued strong demand for their
services. Demand for energy, audit, insurance, consulting work and transactions was robust, while
demand for tax services remained flat. Outlooks were optimistic. Legal firms said growth in demand for
their services was weaker than expected, with the exception of strong real-estate related activity. Outlooks
were optimistic, with contacts expecting a pickup in activity over the next three months. Reports from transportation service firms were positive. Railroad contacts said volumes picked
up since the last report. Petroleum shipments continued to be strong, and contacts noted healthy volumes

 XI-3
 
of some construction-related products, including lumber and wood and crushed stone. Intermodal cargo
volumes increased slightly, and shipping companies said small parcel shipments grew strongly, propelled
by retail trade. Air cargo volumes were flat during the reporting period as increases in domestic shipments
were offset by declines in international shipments. Airline contacts said passenger demand increased slightly since the last report, in part due to
spring-break related travel. Contacts expect demand to strengthen in the summer months and the outlook
is for slight improvement in 2013 over 2012. Construction and Real Estate Texas home prices rose rapidly due to strong demand and very
low inventories. Some builders were still finding financing difficult. Outlooks for the single-family
housing sector were positive, but price gains are expected to slow later in the year as building activity
picks up. Contacts said apartment demand remains strong, in part, thanks to strong job growth and
migration. Commercial real estate contacts reported that gains in occupancy and rents may be slowing
property sales as owning has become more profitable. Most contacts noted banks were more aggressive
with lending, and Texas office and warehouse markets were improving. Financial Services Financial institutions reported broad-based growth in loan demand.
Consumer lending improved, with solid growth in mortgage and automobile lending activity. Commercial
lending grew at a moderate pace, and energy-related activity remained strong in Houston, Austin, San
Antonio and the Eagle Ford area. Commercial real estate and home equity lending activity has started to
bounce back from low levels, noted contacts. Non-performing loans continued to decline. Loan pricing
remained very competitive. Deposits and deposit rates remained mostly unchanged. Outlooks were
optimistic, and contacts expect growth in loan demand and deposits to continue in the near term. Energy    Energy activity was slightly improved, and respondents at energy-related service firms
seemed more confident that the number of active drilling rigs may have bottomed out. Margins for
services, particularly pressure pumping, remained tight, and contacts reported little change in pricing
pressures otherwise. Contacts said drilling activity was flat over the reporting period and continue to
expect improvement in the second half of the year, particularly in the Gulf of Mexico. Agriculture Drought conditions worsened slightly across the District over the reporting period.
Nearly half of the Texas wheat crop was in poor or very poor condition, and spring crops were largely
being planted into very dry soil. Texas feedlots continued to run negative margins, due in part to feed
costs remaining elevated. Cotton was a bright spot, with continued strong demand and rising prices.

 XII - 1 TWELFTH DISTRICT–SAN FRANCISCO
Summary Economic activity in the Twelfth District expanded at a modest pace during the reporting period
of late February through early April. Price increases for most final goods and services were limited, and
upward wage pressures were minimal overall. Sales of many retail items rose, and most business and
consumer services gained further. District manufacturing activity appeared to increase on net. Production
activity and sales grew for agricultural producers. Demand for both homes and commercial real estate
properties continued to expand on balance. Contacts from financial institutions reported increased loan
demand.
Prices and Wages Price increases for most final goods and services were limited. Reports were mixed for
construction materials, with prices for some products such as cement, logs, and lumber edging up further;
meanwhile, prices for some other metal and wood products were mostly flat. Contacts from retail grocery
and restaurant chain establishments reported largely constant food prices as the prices of some of the
underlying commodities have stabilized. Health-care price increases were limited, and fees for legal
services held steady. Contacts reported that wage gains were contained across most occupations, industries, and
regions in the District. Restrained hiring plans and ready worker availability have held down increases in
wages and compensation for most sectors and regions. A shortage of trained engineers continues to
prompt vigorous employer competition and significant compensation gains for this group across a number
of industries. In a few areas experiencing significant rebounds in housing market activity, wages of
construction workers and experienced mortgage underwriters have risen. Contacts mentioned downward
pressure on the wages for some low-skilled jobs and government employees. Most firms expect wage
growth between 2% and 4% this year.
Retail Trade and Services Retail sales rose on balance. New and used automobile sales remained at high levels. Among

 XII - 2
computer and electronic products, sales of personal computers remained weak relative to sales of mobile
computing devices, including smart phones and tablets. Demand for some gaming products and apparel
picked up, with e-commerce sales growth for these items outpacing sales growth at traditional retail
stores. Retail grocers reported soft sales, experiencing intensifying competition from discount and online
retailers. Demand was steady for retail pet products. Demand for most business and consumer services gained. Contacts expect more robust growth
this year for various technology services, such as cloud computing and data processing, compared with
modest gains at the end of last year. Food service providers reported strong sales on net, with some
discount chains faring particularly well. Activity in the District’s travel and tourism sector advanced, as
visitor counts, expenditures, and occupancy rates climbed in Hawaii; however, reports indicated weaker
activity in Southern California in recent weeks. Contacts in the health-care industry described plans to
freeze hiring and scale back capital expenditures in response to the federal spending cuts.
Manufacturing District manufacturing activity appeared to step up during the reporting period of late February
through early April. Contrary to downbeat expectations from earlier in the year arising from product
release challenges, production activity for commercial aircraft and parts continued to grow robustly.
Manufacturers in defense-related subsectors noted furloughs, layoffs, and plant closures at some
production facilities. Reports indicated that inventories of semiconductors fell at the end of last year but
remain roughly in line with current demand. Pharmaceutical goods producers reported modest gains.
Wood product manufacturers stated that demand grew further, fueled both by recent rebounds in domestic
residential construction activity and demand from China. Demand for steel products used primarily in
transportation infrastructure and nonresidential construction projects increased, although overall capacity
utilization for steelmakers remained at a relatively low level.
Agriculture and Resource-related Industries Agricultural producers noted increased sales and production activity. Demand for most crop and
livestock products grew further. Agricultural producers faced mostly stable or somewhat lower

 XII - 3
petroleum-based fuel and natural gas costs. Supplies of most raw materials were adequate. However,
some contacts communicated concerns that volatile weather conditions and limited water availability in
parts of the District could pass through to lower seasonal hiring and reduced agricultural output in coming
months. Reports indicated that electricity and natural gas sales remained strong for both households and
businesses, and natural gas inventories declined a bit further.
Real Estate and Construction Activity in residential and commercial real estate markets continued to gain momentum, with
notable gains in selected locales. Home sales climbed further in most regions, and low inventory levels
coupled with healthy demand supported stable or increasing prices. Reports indicated that the pace of
residential housing permit issuance increased significantly in many regions throughout the District. Rental
activity for both single-family and multifamily homes was strong, based on low vacancy rates and stable
rental rates. Construction of multifamily residential projects expanded further. Commercial real estate
development and leasing activity increased, particularly in major metropolitan areas across the District,
fueled in large part by sustained growth in the technology sector.
Financial Institutions Contacts from financial institutions reported that loan demand improved. Ramped-up mortgage
and automobile lending continued to spur growth in overall loan demand. Banking contacts again
highlighted ample liquidity and generally stiff competition among lenders for well-qualified business
borrowers. Contacts also pointed to a recent buildup of privately held technology companies poised for
public offerings. Despite the clear potential for action, the pace of initial public offerings and new venture
capital deals in the District’s Internet and digital media subsectors has been relatively slow. By contrast,
private equity financing has shown steady growth in recent months. Reports indicated modest
improvement in credit quality for both business and consumer loans.

