 For use at 2:00 p.m., E.D.T. Wednesday July 27, 2011
Summary of Commentary on ____________________ Current Economic Conditions By Federal Reserve District July 2011

SUMMARY OF COMMENTARY ON CURRENT ECONOMIC CONDITIONS BY FEDERAL RESERVE DISTRICTS JULY 2011

 TABLE OF CONTENTS
Summary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . i
First District - Boston . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I-1
Second District - New York . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . II-1
Third District - Philadelphia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . III-1
Fourth District - Cleveland . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . IV-1
Fifth District - Richmond . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . V-1
Sixth District - Atlanta . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . VI-1
Seventh District - Chicago . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . VII-1
Eighth District - St. Louis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . VIII-1
Ninth District - Minneapolis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . IX-1
Tenth District - Kansas City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . X-1
Eleventh District - Dallas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . XI-1
Twelfth District - San Francisco . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . XII-1

 i SUMMARY Reports from the twelve Federal Reserve Districts indicated that economic
activity continued to grow; however, the pace has moderated in many Districts. The six
Districts nearest the Atlantic seaboard reported a slowdown in activity since the previous
Beige Book report; activity was little changed in the Atlanta District and unchanged or
slightly improved in the Richmond District. Of the other six Districts, the Minneapolis
District reported political and weather-related disruptions that temporarily slowed
growth, and the Dallas District slowed to a moderate pace of growth. The remaining four
Districts continued to grow modestly. The previous Beige Book reported a slower growth
rate for four Districts, seven Districts growing at a steady pace, and one District with
faster growth. Consumer spending increased overall, with modest growth of nonauto retail sales
in a majority of Districts. Falling gasoline prices throughout most of this reporting period
may have encouraged a pickup in shopping trips and some additional spending since the
previous Beige Book. Price pressures from food, energy, cotton, and other supplier inputs
continued to squeeze retail margins. Auto sales slowed a little since the previous Beige
Book, with inventories still lean due to Japanese supply chain disruptions. The summer
tourism season has started off stronger than last year in most areas unaffected by severe
weather. Activity among nonfinancial service sectors improved overall in most Districts.
Of the five Districts reporting on transportation services, volumes were mostly up.
 Prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia and based on information collected on or before
July 15, 2011. This document summarizes comments received from businesses and other contacts outside
the Federal Reserve and is not a commentary on the views of Federal Reserve officials.

 ii
Manufacturing activity expanded overall, with two Districts growing at a somewhat faster
rate since the last Beige Book, many Districts reporting steady or slowing growth, and
two Districts reporting little change. Among firms reporting on near-term expectations,
the manufacturing outlook remained generally optimistic, but capital spending plans were
somewhat more cautious. Most residential real estate activity was little changed and remained weak,
although construction and activity in the residential rental market continued to improve
since the previous Beige Book. For six Districts, activity in the nonresidential real estate
market has improved slightly for specific submarkets, although conditions generally
remained weak across all twelve Districts. Since the last Beige Book, overall loan
volumes have increased in three Districts, decreased in two Districts, and were relatively
flat, often with mixed trends across the banks’ portfolios, in five Districts. Credit quality
was steady or improving. Drought conditions and severe flooding adversely affected large portions of the
seven Districts that reported on their agricultural sectors. Districts that reported on their
energy and mining sectors continued to note strong growth for most energy-related
products but some weakness in coal production. Although most Federal Reserve Districts observed modest hiring increases, labor
market conditions remained soft. Wage pressures continued to be subdued for all but a
few specific occupations in some Districts. Price pressures moderated somewhat in many
Districts, although some firms indicated that they were able to pass on some cost
increases to their customers.

 iii
Consumer Spending and Tourism Consumer spending increased overall in most Districts since the last Beige Book.
The New York, Cleveland, Chicago, Minneapolis, and Dallas Districts indicated modest
growth of nonauto retail sales, and the Philadelphia and Kansas City Districts noted
relatively strong growth. Retailers in the Boston, Richmond, Atlanta, and San Francisco
Districts reported mixed results across product lines, while St. Louis District retailers
reported slowing sales. Stronger sales in some New York City stores were attributed to
tourism, while one large mall in western New York credited Canadian shoppers as the
source. A major Philadelphia District retailer suggested that increased shopping trips and
a greater willingness to spend were due to lower gas prices since the last Beige Book.
Inventory levels were not a strong concern. Contacts from half of the Districts noted
upward pressure from supplier prices—cotton was often mentioned—and other non-labor
inputs, especially food and energy. Some retailers were able to pass through some cost
increases, but for many, especially restaurants, profit margins were squeezed. Restaurant
contacts in the Atlanta and Kansas City Districts still managed to report strong sales. Reports of auto sales were mixed across Districts and varied by vehicle make,
with most Districts indicating that dealer inventories were lean primarily due to lingering
supply disruptions for Japanese vehicles and parts. Auto dealers in the Kansas City
District cited strong sales despite reduced incentives and credited, in part, continued low
interest rates and tornado damage. The Chicago District noted lower sales in June as
incentives decreased and showroom traffic declined, followed by improved sales in early
July. The New York, Philadelphia, Richmond, Atlanta, St. Louis, Dallas, and San
Francisco Districts noted varying degrees of lower sales stemming from Japanese supply

 iv
constraints. Strong demand for smaller vehicles and used cars continued in several
Districts. The Cleveland District described dealers’ outlook as cautious due to uncertainty
about gas prices, the economy, and vehicle availability. Tourism activity strengthened in most Districts as the summer season got
underway. The Richmond District reported that bookings along the Mid-Atlantic coast
were comparable to the 2010 season, despite last year’s increase from additional
vacationers who were avoiding the Gulf Coast oil spill. The New York, Atlanta, and San
Francisco Districts also reported increased tourism. Tourism was also up in parts of the
Kansas and Minneapolis Districts, except for destinations adversely affected by drought,
heavy rains, flooding, and Minnesota’s state government shutdown.
Nonfinancial Services Growth of nonfinancial services advanced further during this Beige Book period
for the Districts overall. The Boston, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Dallas, and San Francisco
Districts reported the strongest advances. The Philadelphia and Richmond Districts
reported slight improvements, while activity in the New York District flattened.
Respondents remained optimistic about growth over the next three to six months in the
Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Minneapolis, and Dallas Districts. However, the New
York District’s contacts were less optimistic than they were when polled for the previous
Beige Book. High-tech firms in the Kansas City District expressed an optimistic outlook
and planned to increase capital spending. Among the five Districts that reported on transportation services, freight transport
shipping volumes in the Cleveland District, port activity in the Richmond District, and
intermodal cargo volumes in the Dallas District expanded somewhat. The Kansas City

 v
District also reported increased activity, while Atlanta District firms indicated that their
domestic volumes of freight and parcels were slowing somewhat.
Manufacturing Manufacturing activity expanded overall, with two Districts reporting somewhat
stronger growth since the last Beige Book, many Districts reporting steady or slowing in
growth, and two Districts reporting little change. Auto production in the Cleveland
District rose moderately, as supply disruptions caused by events in Japan diminished. The
Kansas City District also reported a rebound in manufacturing activity from a low level in
the prior survey period, while activity at high-tech firms expanded further. Foreign
demand for metal fabrication and overall demand for semiconductors and other
technology products contributed to slightly faster growth rates in the San Francisco
District. Manufacturers in the Chicago, St. Louis, and Minneapolis Districts reported
continued growth at a relatively steady pace from the previous reporting period. The
Chicago District cited a rebound in auto production and strong demand for heavy trucks
and equipment. Growth continued among manufacturers in the Boston and Dallas Districts as
well; however, results were more mixed. Contacts in the Boston District cited stronger
growth for products related to foreign demand, non-luxury consumer goods, and clients
addressing deferred maintenance needs. Softer growth was reported by firms delivering
consumer luxury goods, and products or services to the small business, banking, and
government sectors. Manufacturing firms in the Philadelphia, Richmond, and Atlanta Districts
reported somewhat slower rates of growth overall. However, the Philadelphia District

 vi
reported a lull early in the period, followed by resumption of a slow rate of growth in
early July, while the Richmond District reported moderate gains, which stalled in early
July. Manufacturing firms in the New York District reported a pause in growth
throughout the period. Manufacturing firms’ expectations of future activity were optimistic in the Boston
and Philadelphia Districts, although Boston’s firms were less positive than in the
previous Beige Book, and Philadelphia’s firms were more positive. Firms in the Boston
District indicated limited plans for capital spending, while firms in the Philadelphia,
Cleveland, Chicago, and Dallas Districts maintained plans for capital spending at prior
levels. Fewer firms in the Cleveland District were reporting delays to project starts for
their capital spending plans.
Real Estate and Construction Residential real estate sales in almost all Districts were little changed from the last
Beige Book. Activity edged up in the Richmond, Atlanta, and Minneapolis Districts. Of
the Districts reporting on home prices, most said that they were flat or declining. The
Boston and Richmond Districts reported steady prices; the Philadelphia and Atlanta
Districts reported that prices were steady to down slightly; and the Kansas City and New
York Districts reported that prices were down. Increasing inventories of unsold homes in
the Boston, New York, and Kansas City Districts have restrained building in the single-
family housing sector. Residential construction activity overall was mixed, though it
increased in the Minneapolis District. Since the previous Beige Book, construction and
activity in the residential rental market have continued to improve in the New York,
Chicago, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts.

 vii Nonresidential real estate activity improved somewhat in the Boston,
Philadelphia, Cleveland, Chicago, St. Louis, and Dallas Districts. The Chicago District
reported strong demand for industrial facilities, particularly from the automotive sector.
The Philadelphia District reported improvements in terms of lower vacancy rates for
office space, industrial space, and apartments; the Chicago District reported generally
lower vacancy rates. The New York, Richmond, Atlanta, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and
San Francisco Districts all reported generally weak activity in nonresidential real estate.
Construction in the Minneapolis District stalled in areas because of flooding and
unavailability of state building inspectors due to the Minnesota state government
shutdown. Health care and apartment construction was a bright spot for the Atlanta
District. Activity was weak in the Kansas City District, but firms that supply construction
materials reported increased sales and stable prices. San Francisco reported stable but
high vacancy rates in many parts of the District.
Banking and Finance Reports of loan demand were more mixed than in the previous Beige Book. The
New York, Richmond, and Chicago Districts reported overall increases in loan demand
but from different sources. Commercial and industrial loans accounted for the growth in
the New York District, while consumer loans accounted for the growth in the Chicago
District. Loan growth in the Richmond District was driven by consumer lending, real
estate loans for apartments, and commercial loans for larger companies. Total loan
volume decreased in the St. Louis and Kansas City Districts, reflecting decreases in real
estate lending and individual loans in St. Louis and reductions in consumer installment,
commercial real estate, and commercial and industrial loans in Kansas City. The

 viii
Philadelphia, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts reported relatively little overall change
in loan volume, while the Cleveland and Atlanta Districts reported mixed results. Outside
of banking, the San Francisco District indicated increased investment activity by venture
capital firms and higher levels of IPO activity. Credit conditions have changed little since the previous Beige Book. Banks in the
New York, Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, and Dallas Districts reported that credit
quality was flat or somewhat improved. Bankers in the Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago,
Dallas, and San Francisco Districts noted that competition among lenders for high-quality
borrowers was squeezing banks’ margins and lowering the cost of capital for those
borrowers. Bank contacts in the New York, Atlanta, Chicago, Kansas City, and San
Francisco Districts indicated that credit standards were mostly unchanged at tight levels,
but the Cleveland District heard a few reports of easing standards for good borrowers.
Agriculture and Natural Resources Severe drought conditions adversely affected parts of the Atlanta, Kansas City,
Dallas, and San Francisco Districts, causing low crop yields, complete crop losses,
wildfires, and loss of grazing land in many areas. The Kansas City, Dallas, and San
Francisco Districts reported that ranchers had culled herds or placed cattle on feed lots in
response to poor pasture conditions, despite higher feed lot costs that trim their margins.
Meanwhile, the Chicago and Minneapolis Districts noted that flooding had caused
millions of acres to go unplanted. The Atlanta District reported that rain brought relief to
some stressed pastures and crops, but farm labor shortages had impaired Georgia’s fruit
and vegetable production. The St. Louis District reported fair or better conditions for
corn, soybean, sorghum, rice, and cotton crops, plus an increase from 2010 in its winter

 ix
wheat production. Kansas City reported good or better conditions for corn and soybean
crops. Agricultural prices were mixed since the last report, with the Chicago and
Minneapolis Districts reporting lower cattle and wheat prices, while soybean and dairy
prices were up. Chicago also reported higher prices for hogs. Activity in the energy sector remained strong. Shale exploration increased in the
Atlanta and Cleveland Districts. The Cleveland District also reported little change in the
production of oil, natural gas, or coal, despite rising demand for coal. The St. Louis
District reported higher coal production than the prior year. The Minneapolis District
reported continued strong mining activity and mixed plans for wind farms and biodiesel.
The Kansas City District reported expanded drilling activity and higher ethanol
production but weak coal production. The Dallas District also reported strong drilling
activity, and the San Francisco District reported strong activity for metal mining, along
with oil and gas extraction.
Employment, Wages, and Prices Labor market conditions remained soft in most Federal Reserve Districts.
Employment, especially among temporary hiring agencies, improved in the Richmond
District in recent weeks. Modest hiring increases, often within specific sectors such as
advertising in the Boston District and manufacturing in the Cleveland District,
contributed to modest overall employment gains. Small gains were also noted in the St.
Louis, Minneapolis, and Dallas Districts. The New York, Philadelphia, and Chicago
Districts reported a slowdown in the pace of hiring activity. A staffing firm in the
Chicago District reported a decline in billable hours.

 x Wage pressures remained subdued in most Districts and for most occupations. For
the overall labor market, the Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Kansas City, Dallas,
and San Francisco Districts reported limited wage pressures. Wage pressures or wage
increases were characterized as modest or moderate by the Atlanta, Chicago,
Minneapolis, and San Francisco Districts. Boston District contacts reported wage growth
between 3 percent and 5 percent in consulting and advertising. In addition, contacts in the
Kansas City District reported labor shortages and wage pressures in the retail sector and
for many occupations in the high-tech, energy, and transportation sectors, while the San
Francisco District reported continued wage pressures for specialized information
technology workers. Price pressures seemed to have moderated somewhat, although some firms
reported being able to pass on some rising costs. Overall, input price pressures appeared
to have fallen modestly. Input price increases remained elevated in the Philadelphia,
Chicago, Minneapolis, and Kansas City Districts. Meanwhile, the Boston, Cleveland,
Atlanta, and San Francisco Districts reported moderation in input price pressures relative
to the previous Beige Book. For the most part, firms’ ability to pass on price increases
remained mixed. A few Districts reported some sectors being able to pass on rising
prices, such as the retail sector in the Chicago District and service-sector firms in the
Dallas District.

 I-1 FIRST DISTRICT – BOSTON Economic activity continues to increase in the First District, but results are somewhat more mixed
than in recent reports. Retailers cite modest sales increases, manufacturers note generally good results but
a few softer segments, and advertising and consulting firms mostly cite strong growth. Commercial real
estate markets continue to see slow improvement, while housing markets remain in the doldrums.
Selected retail and manufacturing contacts cite reduced commodity cost pressures compared to the last
report, although some upward price pressures persist. Headcounts remain largely unchanged or up only
slightly, except for advertising and consulting firms, which continue to hire. Outlooks are generally
positive, but most contacts express concern about current and future negative effects of increased
uncertainty, attributable in part to failure to resolve the U.S. debt ceiling dispute promptly and the
associated unclear future course of federal expenditures and taxes.
Retail First District retailers report mixed sales results for the early summer months, with comparable
same-store sales varying from flat to mid single-digit increases from year-earlier. A few contacts mention
the favorable impact of promotional activity on sales and consumers’ shopping patterns. Inventory levels
are mixed. Several contacts note upward price pressure on commodities including paint, copper, plastics,
and cotton, and one says vendors have given notice of price increases to take effect during the coming
months; however, another contact notes a lessening of cost pressures. Respondents are passing along price
increases where possible. Headcount is mixed, with some firms adding people in line with new store
openings and limited hiring opportunities, and a few consolidating headcount. Capital spending is
primarily limited to new store or renovation opportunities and select IT projects. Outlooks range from
concerned to cautiously optimistic, although the majority of respondents cite apprehension about the
government’s ability to handle the debt ceiling crisis.
Manufacturing and Related Services Business conditions at contacted manufacturers generally remained good in the second quarter,
but results across individual firms and business segments are more mixed than in recent reports. A firm in
the aerospace industry cites strong sales as clients purchased parts to implement previously deferred
maintenance. A food products manufacturer and a plastics manufacturer also report relatively strong sales
volume for the first half of the year. In contrast, a business services firm sees “soft” demand from small
businesses, while another says sales in its banking services business were weak because of continued
pressure on banks to cut costs. Growth in government-related sales continues to be sluggish. In addition, a
company whose products are heavily dependent on consumers’ discretionary spending reports that
customer demand in the U.S. is weak this year compared to last, although international demand remains
strong. Finally, a manufacturer that supplies energy-efficiency-related products to the commercial real
estate sector notes that demand declined in the second quarter relative to the first quarter despite higher
energy prices in the more recent quarter; they attribute this unusual sales pattern to economic uncertainty.
A number of other manufacturers also note that even though their business remains good overall, at least
some segments are being restrained by their customers’ uneasiness about the current federal fiscal

 I-2
situation and overall low consumer confidence. Commodity prices—especially oil and steel prices—remain a concern for firms with commodity-
intensive production processes. Dairy-related prices also continue to rise, and resin (oil)-related packaging
costs remain high. Firms implemented price increases, especially earlier in the year, to offset these higher
costs; in the current round, there is little discussion of further price increases in the near-term. Indeed, a
manufacturer in the food services industry expects prices for wheat and related commodities to soften
somewhat in coming months. In addition, supply shortages for bulk chemicals, which had persisted for
the last two years, vanished unexpectedly in recent weeks according to a plastics manufacturer; he says it
is too early to tell whether the change reflects a drop-off in worldwide demand or an increase in supply. Hiring and investment at contacted firms continues to be limited because of uncertainty about
demand and a desire to keep costs low. Manufacturers investing domestically say they are mainly
spending to upgrade IT and related systems, although a couple of firms report relatively modest
expenditures to slightly increase plant capacity. Employment at the vast majority of contacted firms is
stagnant. Much of the ongoing hiring is to keep up with worker attrition, although a few firms are
increasing their headcount slightly, with one company “finally” converting some of its temporary help to
permanent employees. Looking ahead, many of the responding firms remain cautiously optimistic about growth
prospects, especially in 2012. For many companies, however, the outlook for the rest of 2011 is not as
strong as it was earlier in the year, since growth in the second quarter came in somewhat lower than
expected. Nearly all contacted manufacturers attribute this change in the outlook to the increase in
economic uncertainty resulting from the unresolved U.S. fiscal situation.
Selected Business Services Consulting and advertising contacts in the First District generally report strong growth during the
second quarter of 2011. Most respondents cite year-over-year revenue growth in the 10 percent to 20
percent range, although one consulting firm reports flat revenue and another acknowledges a 9 percent
revenue decline. Contacts note that advertising and consulting as industries are very procyclical and have
thus benefitted from the recent recovery in the corporate sector. All advertising and consulting respondents have increased employment recently and plan to
continue to do so in the near future, with most planned increases close to 5 percent. Several contacts note
difficulty in finding qualified employees, which some firms say is constraining their sales growth.
Additionally, most contacts observe stable wage growth between 3 percent and 5 percent. Although one
contact says that tough competition has forced his company to lower prices, most firms have been able to
pass along the costs of their compensation growth to customers. Contacts are generally very optimistic about their outlook for the second half of 2011 and 2012.
All expect positive growth for the rest of the year and most expect double-digit growth in 2012. Despite
this optimism, most contacts express concern that the current debate over the debt limit has created
considerably uncertainty which is delaying business decisions by themselves and their clients. Because
their business is very procyclical, they say their services may be some of the first cut if companies

 I-3
become pessimistic and retrench, so they fear that failure to resolve the debt ceiling issue could have huge
negative ramifications for their firms and for the general economy.
Commercial Real Estate Conditions in New England’s commercial real estate market are little changed since the last
report. Fundamentals continue to improve across the region, but at a very slow pace. Boston contacts
perceive a modest uptick in office leasing activity in recent weeks, yet at the same time note that net
absorption of office space slowed in the second quarter compared to the first. Respondents expect
Boston’s office leasing market to continue the slow improvement pattern of recent months, but say that
weak employment reports for the U.S. as a whole constitute a downside risk. In Rhode Island, leasing
activity is described as slow, but deals in progress are likely to improve the picture in coming months.
Portland’s commercial leasing market is said to be stable, but the outlook there looks increasingly
uncertain according to one contact. Concerning commercial investment, demand for prime Boston office properties remains robust as
sales prices appear to be edging up, based on recent transactions. Boston’s apartment market remains very
strong and continues to raise concerns of overheating. While apartment rents increased significantly year-
over-year in the metropolitan area—by 5 percent to 10 percent by one estimate—contacts judge recent
property prices to be too high and warn of a possible excess of planned construction. Meanwhile, some
large office construction projects in Boston are moving forward, but others in the planning stages are
likely to remain stalled indefinitely.
Residential Real Estate Throughout the region, residential real estate markets remained stagnant in May, with most New
England states posting significant year-over-year declines in home and condo sales. The homebuyers’ tax
credit, which boosted sales in the first half of 2010, contributed significantly to the year-over-year
declines observed in May, but contacts report activity in the housing market remains slow, with the buyer
pool resting at weak levels. Contacts in some states, however, note increases in home sales compared with
two years ago, which they interpret as a positive sign. Meanwhile, median home prices remained roughly
steady in May compared to a year earlier, with states experiencing either modest increases or declines; the
median price of condos also moved in mixed directions across the region. According to contacts, job
insecurity and stricter lending requirements among larger banks continue to restrict the flow of buyers
into the residential real estate market. At the same time, inventories continue to rise in the region,
although most contacts say current inventory levels are not troubling because inventories in the region
have been low, limiting the selection for potential buyers. Contacts anticipate that sales figures in July will show year-over-year increases as the calendar
moves beyond the expiration of the tax credit in June last year. Most forecast sluggish activity for the rest
of 2011 and do not anticipate a significant increase in buyer activity until 2012 or later. The median sale
price of homes is expected to move up or down only slightly over the coming months.

 II-1 SECOND DISTRICT--NEW YORK The pace of activity in the Second District’s economy slowed somewhat since the last report.
Business contacts across a variety of sectors indicate that activity has flattened out in recent weeks
and that hiring has tapered off. Retail sales remained fairly sturdy in June but were mixed in early
July. Consumer confidence has remained at low levels. Tourism activity has remained strong.
Commercial real estate markets have been mixed since the last report, with office markets mostly
stable but industrial markets weakening somewhat. The residential purchase market has been steady
to somewhat softer, while the rental market has shown further signs of strengthening; there continues
to be little new home construction. Finally, bankers report increased demand for commercial &
industrial loans, lower delinquency rates on such loans, and no change in credit standards in any
category.
Consumer Spending Non-auto retail sales continued to run on or above plan in June, with same-store sales running
1 to 5 percent ahead of a year earlier, though reports for early July were more mixed. A number of
contacts note that sales of apparel have been performing relatively well, while sales of home goods
have been on the sluggish side; one contact notes that fashion apparel has been selling considerably
better than more basic items. One large chain reports somewhat stronger sales in its New York City
stores than elsewhere in the region; part of this is attributed to tourism. Moreover, one large retail
mall in western New York State notes that a continued brisk flow of Canadian shoppers has been a
major factor in driving sales. Retail inventories are generally reported to be in good shape. Prices
appear to be relatively stable overall: one retail chain indicates that it has raised prices moderately on
some lines, but another contact notes that there is somewhat more discounting of merchandise than at
this time last year. Sharply higher cotton prices are expected to push up clothing prices moderately
in the second half of the year.

 II-2 Auto dealers in upstate New York report that sales were mixed in June. Rochester-area
dealers note some deceleration in sales, mainly attributed to low inventories or stock-outs due to
ongoing Japan-related disruptions. On the other hand, Buffalo-area dealers indicate some pickup in
sales in June, after a sluggish May, as inventory problems begin to subside. Used cars are said to be
selling well. Auto-industry contacts note improvement in both retail and wholesale credit conditions. Consumer confidence surveys continue to give mixed results. Siena College reports that
consumer confidence among NY State residents slipped in June, following a good gain in May, with
declines occurring both upstate and downstate. In contrast, the Conference Board reports that
consumer confidence among residents of the Middle Atlantic states (NY, NJ, Pa) rose in June,
following a steep drop in May. Still, both surveys show confidence mired at low levels. Tourism
activity in New York City has remained quite strong since the last report, as reflected in persistently
high hotel occupancy rates, room rates that run 6 to 8 percent ahead of a year earlier, and a pickup in
Broadway theatre attendance and revenues.
Construction and Real Estate Residential construction has remained depressed and housing markets across the District
have remained sluggish since the last report, although there has been further improvement in the
rental market. An authority on New Jersey’s housing industry reports that the resale market has
remained weak, and that the level of optimism appears to have waned. Prices of existing homes have
continued to drift down, largely reflecting a preponderance of “distressed” sales; otherwise, prices
across northern New Jersey are generally flat. While the inventory of unsold new homes is fairly
lean now, the inventory of available existing homes remains elevated—as high as 16 months of sales
if units in foreclosure and other distressed properties are included. Buffalo-area Realtors also report
some weakening in market conditions in May and June; while foot traffic has been fairly brisk, few
people have made offers. More generally, sales activity across New York State has been steady to

 II-3
weaker. A major New York City appraisal firm reports that both sales and prices of co-ops, condos,
and single-family homes remain flat overall—both in Manhattan and in the outer boroughs—with the
high end of the market accounting for a larger share of sales than last year. In contrast with the weakness in home purchase markets, rental markets have shown
increasing strength. Manhattan’s apartment rental market has strengthened since the last report.
Rents on new leases were reported to be up 6 percent in June from a year earlier in June. In addition,
one contact notes that landlords have pulled back on concessions, which are now reportedly being
offered on fewer than 5 percent of new leases, down from 60 percent in mid-2010. Separately, the
Jersey shore summer rental market is reported to be fairly strong this year, though the sales market
for rental units remains sluggish. More broadly, many New Jersey landlords are reported to be
pushing through rent increases for the first time since the recession. Commercial real estate markets have been steady to somewhat weaker since the last report.
Office vacancy rates and rents were generally stable across the District during the second quarter:
market conditions improved slightly in the Buffalo and Rochester metro areas and in Manhattan, but
they weakened moderately in northern New Jersey and metropolitan Albany. However, industrial
real estate markets weakened modestly across most of the District, with vacancy rates edging up and
rents drifting down.
Other Business Activity Reports from business contacts point to some leveling off in the labor market. A major New
York City employment agency reports that recruitment activity has been steady but lackluster since
Memorial Day. Hiring in the legal industry has continued to improve from very depressed levels,
with large firms hiring once again. Financial sector hiring has been spotty. Still, the flow of
applicants for office jobs has declined somewhat. More broadly, contacts in both the manufacturing

 II-4
sector and other industries report some tapering off in hiring activity since the last report, though
employment levels are still expected to increase moderately over the second half of 2011. Looking at overall business activity, manufacturing firms in the District report a pause in
growth in June and early July, based on the latest Empire State Manufacturing Survey.
Manufacturers also report that price pressures have eased since the last report and that their selling
prices are steady; however, both prices paid and prices received are expected to increase in the
months ahead. Non-manufacturing firms also indicate that business activity has flattened out since
the last report, and contacts have become somewhat less optimistic about the near term outlook. Non-
manufacturing firms report that cost pressures remain widespread and more contacts than last time
report that they are raising selling prices.
Financial Developments Bankers indicate increased demand for commercial and industrial loans but little or no
change in other loan categories. Bankers also reported a moderate decline in the demand for
refinancing. Credit standards were reported to be virtually unchanged for all loan categories—the
first time in a number of years that respondents did not report net tightening on the commercial and
industrial segment. Respondents report decreases in spreads of loan rates over costs of funds for all
loan categories, especially residential mortgages; they also indicate a decrease in the average deposit
rate. Finally, bankers indicate lower delinquency rates on commercial and industrial loans but little
or no change in delinquency rates for the other categories.

 III-1 THIRD DISTRICT – PHILADELPHIA Since the last Beige Book, Third District economic activity has continued to grow at a
very slow rate. Overall, manufacturing growth has leveled off at a low rate since the last Beige
Book. Retailers posted strong year-over-year sales increases in June. For motor vehicle dealers,
the slowdown in sales that began in May eased slightly further in June. On balance, bank lending
has been mostly flat since the last Beige Book. Steady and falling house prices continue to
dampen sales of existing and new homes, according to residential real estate and construction
contacts. Commercial real estate contacts reported small improvements in market conditions
since the previous Beige Book. Slight increases in activity were reported by service-sector firms,
dampened somewhat by a hiring slump among customers. Price pressures from food, energy, and
other commodities continue to affect many sectors. The ability to pass along costs remains
mixed, and there is little evidence of wage pressure. Third District business contacts continue to expect slow growth despite expressing
increased uncertainty. Manufacturers forecast a modest rise in shipments and orders during the
next six months. Retailers remain cautiously optimistic about future sales; auto dealers are more
agnostic. Bankers expect slight growth in lending, at best. Residential real estate contacts are
generally planning for a continuation of slow growth, comparable to last year. Contacts in
commercial real estate continue to expect modest gains. Service-sector companies also expect
continued slow growth. Manufacturing. Since the last Beige Book, Third District manufacturers reported a lull
in the growth of new orders and a slowdown in the modest growth rate of shipments. However,
activity was reported to be a bit stronger in July. Among key manufacturing sectors in the Third
District, the number reporting increases of both shipments and orders has narrowed since the last
Beige Book. Growing product demand was reported by makers of furniture; instruments; stone,
clay, and glass products; and printers and publishers. However, makers of food, apparel,
chemicals, rubber, primary metals, fabricated metals, and electronics reported declining product
demand. Comments from firms were mixed, with several citing an ongoing lull in customer
demand, a few surprised by unseasonal increases, and many concerned by economic
uncertainties.

 III-2 Despite the uncertainties, Third District manufacturers have grown somewhat more
positive in their outlook for business conditions over the next six months compared to the time of
the previous Beige Book. Among firms contacted, over two-fifths expect increases in new
orders and shipments, while about one-fifth expect decreases. One-third of firms polled project
increases in capital spending over a six-month planning horizon – the same proportion as at the
last Beige Book. Retail. Third District retailers reported stronger sales in June than a year earlier.
Shopping trips and a willingness to spend were aided by falling gas prices since the previous
Beige Book. Consumers continue to search for value, and retailers continue to respond with
merchandise at lower price points. Retailers remain cautiously optimistic as the critical
September through December retail period approaches. However, given the slow growth so far
this year, one retailer indicated that it would likely implement only half of this year’s capital
budget plan. Third District auto dealers generally reported that sales eased further in June after May’s
slowdown. Results varied by brand, depending on reliance on Japanese production for the
vehicle or parts. One dealer of General Motors brands indicated June was the dealership’s best
month of the year. Dealers remain uncertain about future sales. Finance. Third District banks contacted in July indicated little change in loan volumes
outstanding. Many sources reported continued weak demand from small businesses; some
bankers cited stronger lending to middle market businesses. Revolving credit had bounced back
somewhat in June, after a fall-off in April and May; however, the gains may have been lost in
early July. On balance, total credit extended by banks in the region has been flat to slightly down.
Expectations for better growth were not met for the most recent period – dampening expectations for
anything but the slightest improvement in the near future, according to banking contacts. Real Estate and Construction. Residential real estate activity in the Third District has
changed little since the previous Beige Book. While some agents reported positive comparisons
during June and early July for showings and sales compared to year-ago levels, activity last year
was soft after the tax credit expired. Agents and builders continue to report stronger sales among
mid- and low-priced homes, but incidences of high-priced home sales are increasing. Reports of

 III-3
multiple offers for condos in center city Philadelphia were noted by one agent as a glimmer of
improvement. Most market participants do not expect the year as a whole to be markedly
different from last year. In most parts of the Third District, sale prices of existing homes continue
to fall slightly; in a few areas, prices were unchanged. Traffic and sales of new homes have
weakened since the last Beige Book; however, one builder reported an uptick in activity in
Pennsylvania in the last two weeks. Commercial and industrial real estate contacts have noted small improvements in the
Third District since the previous Beige Book. Overall, vacancy rates have improved for office
space, industrial space, and apartments, although one manager said activity seems to have come
to a standstill in the last month. Retail space vacancies may have edged up slightly; however,
demand is stronger in regional centers and weaker at neighborhood sites. An ongoing trend of
trading up for quality as office space leases renew has lowered vacancies and reduced
concessions for Class A space, while raising vacancies for Class B space. Rents are generally
steady for most sectors in most areas and concessions remain common. Services. Reports from Third District service-sector firms were slightly positive overall,
but firms described various challenges. A recurring theme was a recent slowdown in hiring,
especially from small and medium-sized businesses. One staffing agency described “almost a
stop to new [excludes replacement] hiring orders in the last three weeks.” Other firms cited
projects delayed due to ongoing economic uncertainties, including government-related projects
contingent on budget negotiations. The most positive firms recognized that the “easy year-over-
year comps are over” in this recovery and that continued growth will be slow. Despite these
challenges, most service-sector firms expect growth to be somewhat better over the next six months. Prices and Wages. Since the previous Beige Book, the percent of manufacturers
reporting increases in prices paid for inputs dropped from more than one-half to one-third. Over
the same period, the percent reporting decreases in prices received for their own products rose
from nearly zero to over one-sixth. Rising commodity prices continue to pressure retailers,
service-sector firms, and home builders to pass through costs when they can and to lower the
price-point of their offerings. There are a few reports of a little upward pressure on rents in
selected local markets for apartments and some retail space. Meanwhile, there is little evidence
of pressure on wages.

 IV-1 FOURTH DISTRICT – CLEVELAND Business activity in the Fourth District continued to expand at a modest pace, albeit at a
slower rate since our last report. Manufacturers reported a slight rise in production and new
orders, while freight transport volume continued to grow. Retail sales increased, but were below
plan for some chains. New car sales weakened slightly. Energy companies noted little change in
output. New-home construction is sluggish, whereas nonresidential building showed continued
improvement. The demand for business and consumer credit remains low. Rising payrolls were mainly limited to the manufacturing and energy sectors. Staffing-
firm representatives noted moderate growth in the number of new job openings, with vacancies
concentrated in manufacturing and professional business services. Wage pressures are largely
contained. We heard fewer reports about rising prices for commodities and other raw materials.
In particular, steel firms noted a leveling off in prices for their products, while food producers
reported a slow decline in some agricultural commodity prices. Manufacturing. Reports from District factories indicate that production was stable or
rose slightly during the past six weeks. About half of our respondents noted a rise in new orders.
Many of our contacts expect some slowing in the third quarter due to seasonal factors, followed
by a modest pick-up later in the year. Almost all steel producers and service centers reported
that shipping volume declined during the second quarter, which they attributed in part to
weakening in the auto sector. Steel representatives anticipate volume remaining close to current
levels through the end of the third quarter. Shipments are being driven primarily by heavy
equipment and energy-related industries. District auto production showed a moderate rise in
June on a month-over-month basis, as supply disruptions caused by events in Japan diminished.
Year-over-year production fell, but declines were mainly limited to foreign nameplates. Manufacturers remain committed to raising capital outlays in the upcoming months
relative to year-ago levels. The number of contacts who earlier reported delaying the start of
projects due to slowing in the recovery has declined considerably. Capacity utilization rates
remain below what is considered normal for a majority of manufacturers. Reports on raw
material pricing were mixed, and only a few of our contacts said that they had passed through
price increases. Steel prices leveled off, while food producers reported a slow decline in some
agricultural commodity prices. In general, manufacturers continued hiring at a modest pace.
Wage pressures are contained. Real Estate. New-home construction remains at a low level, with only two of our
contacts reporting an uptick in sales during June. Purchases were mainly in the move-up buyer
categories. Contractors expect that single-family construction will remain depressed until
potential buyers can more easily sell their existing homes and the job market begins to gain some
traction. List prices of new homes held steady, while the use of discounting grew. Upward

 IV-2
pressure on the cost of building materials was reported by almost all of our contacts. Spec
inventories were reduced further relative to year-ago levels. General contractors continue to
work with lean crews, and no hiring is expected in the near term. Many subcontractors are
struggling to stay in business and are bidding jobs below cost. Activity in nonresidential construction strengthened somewhat during the past couple of
months, with a few of our contacts noting a significant improvement when compared to year-ago
levels. Inquiries are on the rise, and several contractors reported growing backlogs, albeit with
weak margins. Construction is taking place in a broad range of industry sectors. Almost all of
our contacts expect that activity will continue to slowly improve as the year progresses.
Financing is available, though underwriting standards remain high. Banks are unwilling to lend
for speculative projects, and they require additional equity when refinancing an existing
property. Most of our contacts reported normal price fluctuations for building materials.
Aggressive pricing on the part of both general contractors and subcontractors was widespread.
Construction payrolls held steady, and little permanent hiring is expected in the upcoming
months. Consumer Spending. Reports from retailers indicate that sales for the period from mid-
May through late June rose in the low to mid-single digits. However, for a few chains, the rate
of growth was lower than expected. This was attributed mainly to inclement weather.
Transactions were mostly higher relative to year-ago levels. Several of our contacts noted that
rising sales included some higher-priced discretionary items. One retailer said that her overall
sales were up due to elevated gasoline prices. Looking forward, retailers’ expectations for the
third quarter were mixed. We continue to hear about upward pressure on supplier prices,
although it mainly affects food- and fuel-related products. Retailers passed through some of
their increases to consumers. Reports on profit margins were mixed, with declines taken
primarily by grocers. Capital outlays remain on plan and are slightly higher than year-ago levels.
A majority of our contacts reported that they plan to expand the number of their retail outlets.
However, no change in payrolls is expected at existing stores. Most auto dealers reported that new-vehicle sales from mid-May through late June were
below those recorded during the previous six-week period. On a year-over-year basis, vehicle
purchases increased for almost all of our contacts. Demand for smaller, fuel-efficient cars
continues to grow. However, with some retrenchment in gasoline prices, consumers are
beginning to take a second look at SUVs and trucks. Inventories were characterized as low by
many dealers, and they believe this may be a major contributor to slower sales. Dealers are
cautious in their outlook due to uncertainty about gas prices, the economy, and the availability of
vehicles that consumers want to buy. Demand for used cars remains fairly strong; however,
scarce inventory is contributing to rising prices. Credit pricing remains very competitive, and the

 IV-3
use of leasing as a credit alternative is growing. Many dealers are in the process of initiating
factory-mandated programs for showroom upgrades and reimaging. Little change in dealer
payrolls was reported. Banking. Demand for business loans was generally soft, with activity driven by non
profits and energy companies. A few of our contacts noted a pick-up in construction-loan
requests for multi-family dwellings. On the consumer side, indirect auto lending was strong,
while draw-downs on home equity lines of credit tapered off. Other installment loan categories
remain weak. Many of our contacts reported downward pressure on interest rates for business
and consumer credit. Applications for residential mortgages declined since our last report, with
submissions equally distributed between refinancing and new purchases. Overall core deposits
continue to increase, but the rate of growth has declined. We heard a few reports of easing credit
standards for commercial and industrial loans, especially for attractive credits. The credit quality
of business and consumer applicants was characterized as steady or improving. Most bankers
reported a modest improvement in delinquency rates. No significant changes in employment
levels were reported. However, about half of our respondents said that they expect selective
hiring to occur this year. Energy. Reports indicate that oil and natural gas drilling and production showed little
change during the past six weeks, with activity in Marcellus and Utica shales continuing to grow.
Wellhead prices paid to independent producers have declined. Demand for coal is rising,
especially in overseas markets. However, due to transport issues and increasing governmental
oversight in permitting and environmental compliance, production remained flat. Little change
is anticipated for the remainder of the year. Spot prices for coal, particularly steam, moved
slightly higher. Capital outlays are on target, with moderate increases projected by oil and gas
companies in the upcoming months. The cost of production equipment and materials increased
slightly since our last report. A modest rise in payrolls by oil and gas producers was reported. Transportation. Freight transport executives told us that shipping volume expanded
slightly, as the effects of supply chain disruptions due to events in Japan and severe spring
weather in the U.S. dissipate. Expectations call for markets to continue growing at a modest
pace in the upcoming months. The price for diesel fuel remains elevated, with most of the
increase being passed through to customers via surcharges. Capital outlays are expected to
accelerate during 2011. Spending is mainly to replace units that were in service longer than
expected. Hiring has been largely for driver replacement. However, we heard a couple of
reports that carriers are adding capacity, which remains below pre-recession levels industry-
wide. Wage pressures are emerging due to a tightening of the driver pool.

 V-1 FIFTH DISTRICT–RICHMOND Overview. Business activity in the Fifth District was unchanged or slightly improved in most
sectors since our last assessment. In the service sector, retail activity on balance remained soft during the
last month, while non-retail services firms reported flat or slightly increasing demand. Tourism to
mountain and ocean destinations picked up in recent months. Banking activity improved moderately, but
gains did not extend to commercial real estate. Indeed, both commercial Realtors and construction
contractors reported that activity was little changed from weak conditions in past months. In contrast,
however, residential Realtors indicated that low-to-medium priced homes across the District were
generally lifting the market, if only slightly, since our last report. The manufacturing sector slowed over
the last month, with several contacts citing softer demand. Finally, employment agencies specializing in
temporary workers noted modest improvements in demand, with several adding that recent uncertainty
about the direction of sales was causing their clients to postpone hiring full-time employees. Manufacturing. District manufacturing stalled in July after exhibiting moderate gains in June. A
producer of coated steel reported that orders had declined during the entire second quarter. He noted that
typically the second and third quarters were the strongest for his company, but that he was not seeing any
improvement in either June or July. Similarly, a furniture manufacturer indicated that business had slowed
in recent months, particularly for furniture collections for the home. Several firms reported that working
capital constraints, coupled with the inability to pass through raw material increases, had limited their
ability to expand their business. In addition, a few contacts mentioned that automotive deliveries had
slowed and material costs had increased recently as a result of the production interruptions in Japan. Our
latest manufacturing survey indicated that prices of both raw materials and finished goods grew more
slowly over the last month. Fifth District ports continued to post moderate gains since our last report. With shipping moving
into its peak season, however, several port authorities expressed concern that recent import gains were not
as strong as expected. One official attributed the apparent sluggishness in May and June to retailers
ordering earlier than normal last year (due to uncertainty over shipping rates), making year-over-year
comparisons misleading. Another contact stated that the surge in trade that occurred over the last year was
not sustainable, and also added that the weakening of the overall economy was affecting import volumes.
A shipping official noted that many businesses were reluctant to build inventory and some retailers
seemed to be holding back their orders, adding to a sense of “choppiness” to shipping activity. However,
exports of coal and other commodities continued to do well, according to a port official, and auto imports
were described by one contact as “amazing,” with automakers scrambling to rebuild depleted inventory.
Several contacts expected shipping activity to pick up later this year, in part due to an increase in empty
containers being shipped to Asia—presumably to be refilled for the Christmas holiday season.

 V-2 Retail. Retailers across the District generally reported mixed sales since our last report. A few
retailers, for example, reported that mid-price items languished in recent months, and customers
bargained hard for discounts. Several clothiers told us that their apparel sales fell—except in higher-end
goods. In addition, rising cotton and wool prices were pushing clothing prices higher. Our recent survey
of retailers indicated some weakening in revenues, although the weakness was not as pronounced as a
month earlier. However, several discount stores reported increased shopper traffic and an uptick in total
sales. Grocery store contacts also reported rising sales, as did some wholesale building supply firms in the
D.C. area. Several luxury retailers reported solid sales, and an auto dealer indicated strong sales in recent
weeks. One West Virginia dealer noted that foreign makes continued to “outsell production.” Services. Service sector activity was flat to slightly stronger in recent weeks. Revenues
strengthened moderately, according to polled contacts, particularly in telecommunications. A number of
builders and construction-related firms in the D.C. area also reported a pickup in business during the past
month. Most contacts we surveyed at restaurants and hotels said revenues accelerated since the start of
summer. However, advertising agencies indicated that business was flat, and healthcare services providers
reported little change. Non-retail services providers’ prices rose at a slightly quicker pace over the last
month, according to our recent survey. Finance. Loan demand in the District continued to improve, albeit at an uneven pace, since our
last report. Consumer lending increased in most banking markets, according to contacts, with several
bankers citing examples of making loans for appliance replacements and home renovations. A loan
officer in West Virginia noted increased loans for auto dealership inventory. And, a banker in North
Carolina noted continued strength in industrial loans for warehouse buildings and machinery. However,
another banker characterized industrial loans as going more toward high-tech capital goods than
traditional machinery. Except for apartment buildings, commercial real estate loans declined in most areas
around the District, with several commercial developers reporting continued difficulty getting financing.
One banker, however, cited a pickup in commercial loan demand primarily from larger companies, while
demand for small business loans in general edged downward. Most bankers stated that intense
competition for quality loans was squeezing margins. Several contacts reported that credit quality was flat
or slightly improved over the last few months, with the number of late payments edging down. A banker
in Richmond said that small businesses, especially retailers, accounted for most cases of delinquencies. Real Estate. Real estate activity edged higher since our last report. Several Realtors indicated
that sales had picked up gradually and that their markets were more active than a year ago. While most of
the gains were in the low-to-mid price range, activity also inched up for higher-priced homes in some
areas. An agent in the D.C. area, for example, reported that properties in the mid-to-upper price range sold
quickly, with the best sellers in the $800 thousand to $1.25 million price range. He added that relatively
low inventory should keep market activity fairly strong in that area. A Realtor in the western part of North

 V-3
Carolina said that he was “cautiously optimistic,” but added that high unemployment in that area
remained a serious drag on sales activity. Realtors throughout the District noted an increase in foot traffic,
but sale price movements varied. Real estate agents in the Greensboro, N.C. and Greenville, S.C. areas
stated that prices held steady, while a contact in the D.C. area cited a slight increase in sales prices. Commercial Realtors and construction contractors reported little change from the generally weak
conditions that prevailed in our last assessment, but a few encouraging signs were noted. A recent survey
of contractors in the District revealed that one third of respondents experienced no change in construction
activity over the last three months, while forty percent reported declining activity (compared to over fifty
percent three months ago). Gains often came from government, medical, and higher education projects,
which have been pockets of strength. However, several contractors reported a recent decline in higher
education-related construction. On the Realtor side, most contacts continued to cite weakness in demand
from small businesses for both office and industrial space. However, several Realtors noted a pickup in
leasing to small retailers, especially independent restaurants. A Realtor in Virginia reported limited gains
among car dealerships and nursing homes, with most of that business coming from long-standing clients.
A Realtor in Raleigh reported some increase in the number of clients who expressed interest in taking out
a lease in the near future. Finally, most contacts around the District indicated that rental rates were
generally stable, and several Realtors reported a decrease in the number of requests for rent reductions. Labor Markets. Fifth District labor market activity, especially among temporary employment
agencies, improved slightly in recent weeks. Most contacts at temp agencies characterized demand as at
least somewhat better in recent weeks, although a few agents cited weakness in demand for workers.
However, virtually all agents indicated that demand was still stronger than a year ago. Several
employment agents cited uncertainty about the economy as the primary factor behind hiring temporary
help rather than full-time employees. For example, a Hagerstown agent said that many of his clients were
still very uncertain about their future orders. As a result, they were using contingent labor more than they
might if they felt that business volume would continue to increase. Increased demand for temporary
workers was reported for a diverse set of skills, including light manufacturing assemblers, machine
operators, forklift operators and quality inspectors. Respondents to our latest manufacturing survey
indicated that employment demand, while fairly robust in June, was little changed in July. Retail hiring
rose slightly, according to our recent survey, and hiring was little changed at non-retail services providers.
A slight majority of both retail and non-retail respondents indicated that they were increasing wages. Tourism. District tourism gained momentum in recent weeks. Contacts along the Mid-Atlantic
coast reported bookings in line with a year ago—notwithstanding last year’s “bump” from vacationers
who relocated their vacations to the East Coast from the Gulf Coast during the oil spill disruptions.
Hoteliers in several locations noted a trend toward last-minute bookings, although a contact on the coast
of North Carolina cited last year’s relocation crunch as the impetus for more advance bookings in her

 V-4
region this season. A resort manager in the mountains of western Virginia said that new summer
attractions helped drive 95 to 100 percent occupancy at his site. July has been “fantastic,” according to a
hotel representative in Baltimore, with occupancy pushed up by several big events and by an increase in
the number of family reunions. Contacts reported mostly small rate increases for the summer. Most hotel
and resort owners expressed optimism about potential business during the 2011 winter holiday season;
some were already receiving inquiries.

 VI-1 SIXTH DISTRICT – ATLANTA Summary. Sixth District business contacts described economic activity as little-
changed in June through mid-July. Retail sales grew slowly, although sales of higher-end
goods saw more traction and tourism activity was strong. Existing home sales remained soft
outside of Florida, while new home sales and construction were weak throughout the region.
Downward pressure on prices of both existing and new homes continued to be noted.
Contractors reported that the pace of commercial development was basically unchanged,
although construction activity in healthcare and multi-family had improved. Manufacturing
contacts indicated that production and new orders increased but at a slower pace than
experienced earlier in the year. Credit availability for entrepreneurs and real estate developers
remained tight, although loan availability for some commercial projects increased. Most
business contacts indicated that their hiring plans remained modest. Firms' expectations for
unit cost increases have softened, mainly because non-labor input costs have moderated.
Some energy contacts have noticed a considerable uptick in early stage fabrication of oil and
gas extraction capital goods. While most of the District continued to experience drought
conditions, recent rains have provided relief to some of the District’s stressed farmlands. Consumer Spending and Tourism. Most District merchants reported that retail sales
growth was modest in June through mid-July, although some luxury goods retailers noted
steady-to-improving sales. The outlook among most retailers was less optimistic than earlier
in the year. The majority of contacts stated that they were keeping inventory levels lean and
had no plans to increase supply in the near term. Mid- and high-end restaurant contacts
reported improving traffic and sales, although their margins remained under pressure from
non-labor input costs. Auto sales from Japanese manufacturers slowed, but dealers noted that
the impact of supply disruptions from Japan is ending. Leisure activity continued to accelerate in most areas. Contacts reported increases in
room occupancy and rates in many areas. Strong attendance at theme parks, festivals, and
coastal destinations was noted. Cruise bookings have risen as well, and airport contacts
observed increases in passenger traffic. The overall outlook for tourism remained positive. Real Estate and Construction. According to reports from District brokers, home
sales were slightly ahead of last year’s weak levels. Gains continued to be driven largely by
reports from Florida brokers. Outside Florida, the majority of contacts reported sales declined.

 VI-2
Brokers continued to report declining home inventory levels as fewer homes enter the market
and that home prices were flat to slightly down compared with a year earlier. The outlook
among Florida brokers was somewhat positive, but elsewhere sales are expected to remain
weak. District builders reported that new home sales and construction weakened somewhat
in June compared with year-ago levels. Builders continued to report downward pressure on
new home prices. Residential contractors reported that home improvement construction
increased from earlier in the year; however, most reported that they were unable to effectively
pass along all cost increases. Most builders anticipate that new home sales and construction
will be slightly ahead of last year’s weak levels over the next several months, and most expect
renovation work will continue to improve. About two-thirds of contractors reported that the pace of commercial development was
flat to slightly up compared with weak levels from a year earlier, but backlogs continued to
shrink. Contractors commented that healthcare and apartment construction were bright spots
and that renovations in commercial and apartment space had increased. Most contractors
anticipate activity for the remainder of this year will be flat to below year-ago levels. With
regard to existing commercial structures, contacts reported that credit availability and
absorption improved, especially in light industrial, warehousing, healthcare and energy-
related space. Manufacturing and Transportation. Manufacturing contacts indicated that
production and new orders increased, but at a slower pace than reported earlier in the year.
Producers of healthcare equipment and electrical components in particular noted stronger
orders, and a producer of freight trucks is significantly increasing output. Many manufacturers
reported increased investment in technology equipment in efforts to increase efficiency.
While some contacts noted that the acceleration in input prices had begun to moderate, the
price of metals remained elevated. Many contacts reported that supply chain disruptions from
the disaster in Japan were beginning to moderate. Freight forwarding and parcel shipping contacts reported a gradual slowing of
domestic volume momentum in June through mid-July. The cost of fuel and other inputs
continued to challenge shippers’ operating margins; however, maritime contacts cited some

 VI-3
success in passing along fuel surcharges. Input costs for trucking contacts – such as tires,
replacement parts, and new vehicles – remained high. Banking and Finance. Banking contacts reported that credit was available, but
finding qualified borrowers continued to be difficult. Several cited increased competition for
qualified loans. New residential real estate loans were limited, but banks were actively
competing for refinances. Business contacts reported credit markets improved, but loan
standards remained high. Credit availability for entrepreneurs and real estate developers
remained tight, although loans were available for some commercial projects – namely
hospitals and multi-family buildings. Employment and Prices. Most business contacts indicated that their hiring plans
remained modest. Uncertainty regarding future demand and the regulatory environment were
the most commonly cited reasons for the muted hiring outlook. Of those that reported plans
to increase employment, many pointed to having reached maximum productivity with existing
staff. Staffing agency contacts continued to experience high demand for temporary or contract
workers. According to reports, demand for qualified, higher skilled candidates is robust,
especially in the technology sector. Most contacts said that they did not experience significant
upward wage pressure, and characterized annual increases and bonuses as modest. Firms' expectations for unit cost increases are more tempered than noted earlier in the
year. Non-labor input costs have moderated, but remained elevated. However, downward
price pressures from productivity gains were reportedly tapering off. While District contacts
have continued to report that margins remained squeezed, there have been more frequent
reports that some contacts are attempting to pass through input costs. Natural Resources and Agriculture. Some energy contacts have noticed a
considerable uptick in early stage fabrication of oil and gas extraction capital goods.
Shipbuilding for shallow water supply boats has also increased. Shale exploration has
increased as firms employed directional drilling techniques for oil and gas liquids. While most of the District continued to experience drought conditions, recent rains
have provided relief to some of the District’s stressed pastures and crops. Based on results of
a recent state survey, a contact reports concerns that farm labor shortages has had a negative
impact on Georgia’s fruit and vegetable production.

 VII-1 SEVENTH DISTRICT—CHICAGO Summary. Economic activity in the Seventh District continued to expand slowly in June
and early July. Contacts expressed heightened uncertainty about the economic outlook given recent
weaker-than-expected demand as well as the ongoing fiscal issues in the U.S. and Europe.
Consumer and business spending edged up. Manufacturing production continued to expand at a
steady pace while construction remained flat. Credit conditions again improved modestly, despite
increased volatility in financial markets. Commodity prices remained elevated, and there was
further pass-through of these costs to prices downstream. After a late start to planting, crop
conditions began to return to normal, but dryness and above-average temperatures were concerns
for farmers in parts of the District. Consumer spending. Consumer spending picked up some in June and early July.
Consumers took advantage of retailers’ efforts to clear inventory through early summer promotions.
Spending on apparel and accessories increased as did expenditures on household goods like power
equipment and lawn and garden items. In contrast, auto sales edged lower in June, as incentives
decreased and showroom traffic declined; sales then improved moderately in early July. Small
passenger cars and pickup trucks continued to account for most new vehicle sales. Inventories of
small passenger cars remained lean due to continued supply disruptions for Japanese vehicles and
higher demand for domestically produced small cars. Demand for used vehicles remained strong,
and with used car inventories relatively low, prices rose further. Business spending. Business spending also edged up from the previous reporting period.
Inventory investment decreased, but expenditures for equipment and structures increased. Several
manufacturers reported plans to expand capacity, with a number of projects set to break ground in
the District this fall. Renovation of retail facilities picked up further. In addition, contacts reported
an increase in spending on research and development. Hiring continued at a slow pace, with many
manufacturers reiterating the difficulty in finding appropriately skilled workers. On balance,
however, labor market conditions weakened, as a number of private and public sector layoffs were
reported and unemployment ticked up in the District. Furthermore, a large staffing firm reported a
decline in billable hours. Construction/real estate. Construction activity remained subdued in June and early July.
Construction of new single-family homes slowed, while the construction of apartment buildings
increased. Residential real estate conditions remained weak. The spring and early summer season

 VII-2
saw a slight uptick in new home sales in the District, which, according to contacts, tends to be a
leading indicator of the sales volume for the remainder of the year. In addition, although more
potential homebuyers are qualifying for mortgages, contacts noted that downward pressure on
existing home prices continues to restrict the availability of credit for new single-family
construction. In contrast, nonresidential construction edged up with continued strong demand for
industrial facilities, particularly from the automotive sector, partially offset by continued weakness
in office and retail construction. Commercial real estate conditions also improved, albeit
moderately. Vacancy rates edged lower, with net absorption stabilizing in the retail segment and
rebounding in the office market. Manufacturing. Manufacturing production continued to expand at a steady pace from the
previous reporting period. Automakers indicated that production was recovering from the Japanese
supply chain disruptions in the second quarter. Auto inventories remain relatively low, but given
recently lower sales, contacts reported that production would likely recover less sharply than
previously expected. A contact in the auto supply industry noted that production losses from the
Japanese disasters had been smaller than anticipated, but that efforts to work around supply
disruptions resulted in increased expenses for labor, logistics, and parts, putting pressure on
suppliers’ margins. Capacity utilization in the steel industry reached its highest point since 2008;
additional capacity is being added, but at a slow rate. In addition, contacts reported that steel service
center inventories are tight. Several manufacturers of industrial metals reported increases in orders
as well as significant backlogs in June; however, a few also noted slower activity in recent weeks.
Despite some softening in demand from Asia and Europe, overall demand for heavy trucks and
equipment continued to be strong, driven by fleet replacement and robust activity in the mining
sector. In contrast, shipments of household appliances declined. Banking/finance. On balance, credit conditions improved modestly in June and early July.
Funding costs and liquidity tightened marginally and volatility increased in a number of financial
markets. In addition, contacts expressed concern about the negative consequences that a potential
sovereign default would have on financial markets. Credit availability continued to improve, though
standards remained tight for many borrowers. Competition among lenders for the highest-quality
customers has been stiff, lowering the cost of capital for these borrowers. Business loan demand
was steady. Businesses continue to mostly refinance existing debt, though a contact noted that
increasingly such deals were also beginning to include an expansionary element. Consumer loan

 VII-3
demand improved, with the pace of deleveraging by consumers slowing somewhat. The rate of
improvement in both business and consumer loan quality reportedly flattened out. Prices/costs. Cost pressures remained elevated in June and early July. Food prices
continued to rise, while prices for energy and some industrial metals, like steel, declined. Despite
these recent declines, prices for many commodities remain elevated, and contacts indicated that fuel
surcharges and shipping costs have yet to come down. Many wholesale prices also continued to rise,
with pass-through of these higher costs to the retail sector picking up from the previous reporting
period. Wage pressures, however, remained moderate. Agriculture. There were mixed changes in crop conditions throughout the District. A
small percentage of acres along the Missouri River were lost to flooding. Though there was some
concern about recent above-average temperatures, contacts still see the potential for good to
excellent corn and soybean yields this fall, contingent upon favorable weather for the rest of the
summer. Historically low stocks of corn and soybeans have put a premium on delivery
commitments before harvest. On balance over the reporting period, cash prices for corn, wheat, and
cattle were down while prices for soybeans, milk and hogs prices moved higher; all of these prices,
however, remained above the levels of a year ago. Livestock operations faced margin pressure from
high feed costs. Some elevators were under financial pressures due to expanded margin calls on
their contracted positions as well as higher costs for planned input purchases for next year's crop.

 VIII-1 Eighth District - St. Louis
Summary Economic activity in the Eighth District has continued to increase at a modest pace since
our previous report. Manufacturing activity has continued to increase since the previous report.
Activity in the services sector also has increased. Residential real estate activity has continued to
decline. In contrast, commercial and industrial activity has improved modestly in some areas,
although commercial construction activity has remained slow. Lending at a sample of small and
mid-sized District banks declined in the three-month period from late March to late June.
Manufacturing and Other Business Activity Manufacturing activity has continued to increase since our previous report. Several
manufacturers reported plans to open plants and expand operations in the near future, while a
smaller number of contacts reported plans to close plants or reduce operations. Firms in the
wood, organic dye, automobile parts, lime, and hygiene product manufacturing industries
reported plans to expand operations and hire new workers. Furthermore, a major firm in the
automobile manufacturing industry announced plans to hire a significant number of new
workers. In contrast, firms in the ice cream, air conditioner, and wrapping paper manufacturing
industries announced plans to close plants and lay off employees. Activity in the District's services sector has increased since our previous report. Firms in
the business support, human resources administration, entertainment, hotel, and tire wholesale
industries announced plans to expand operations and hire new workers. In contrast, contacts in
the government, newspaper publishing, restaurant, and education industries reported plans to
decrease operations in the District and lay off employees. General retailers report that sales have

 VIII-2
slowed in recent weeks. Auto dealers report inventory shortages of quality used cars as well as
new car models that contain parts supplied by Japan.
Real Estate and Construction Home sales continued to decline throughout most of the Eighth District. Compared with
the same period in 2010, May 2011 year-to-date home sales were down 15 percent in Louisville,
13 percent in Memphis, and 21 percent in Little Rock and St. Louis. Residential construction
also continued to decline throughout the District. May 2011 year-to-date single-family housing
permits decreased in the majority of the District metro areas compared with the same period in
2010. Permits decreased 30 percent in Little Rock, 34 percent in St. Louis, 23 percent in
Memphis, and 27 percent in Louisville. Commercial and industrial real estate activity has experienced modest improvement in
some regions, while construction activity remained slow throughout most of the District. A
contact in central Arkansas reported that while office real estate activity continues to be stagnant,
there are more commercial space inquires from national tenants. A contact in Memphis noted a
slight increase in office space demand in the first half of 2011 but noted unchanged activity for
industrial real estate. Contacts in St. Louis noted demand growth for both industrial and office
space but slow construction activity. Contacts in Louisville reported increased industrial space
leasing activity and expect further demand growth in this sector as new construction remains
limited. Contacts in northeast Arkansas noted growth in commercial real estate sales and
construction in the Jonesboro and Paragould areas.
Banking and Finance Total loans outstanding at a sample of small and mid-sized District banks decreased 1.0
percent from late March to late June. Real estate lending, which accounts for 74.3 percent of

 VIII-3
total loans, decreased 1.4 percent. Commercial and industrial loans, accounting for 15.6 percent
of total loans, increased 0.8 percent. Loans to individuals, accounting for 4.7 percent of total
loans, decreased 6.0 percent. All other loans, roughly 5.4 percent of total loans, increased 13.6
percent. During this period, total deposits at these banks decreased 0.5 percent.
Agriculture and Natural Resources The majority of the corn, soybean, sorghum, rice, and cotton crops in the Eighth District
are currently in fair or better condition. Winter wheat harvests are either complete or close to
completion in all District states, and the production of winter wheat and the area harvested for
the crop increased from 2010 to 2011. Finally, the fraction of pastures in good or better condition
has declined in most District states since our previous report. Year-to-date coal production for
the District, at the end of June, was 6.1 percent higher than the same period in 2010, and monthly
production for June was 1.3 percent higher than production for June 2010.

 IX-1 NINTH DISTRICT--MINNEAPOLIS
The Ninth District economy grew modestly, but activity was disrupted by widespread
flooding and a temporary Minnesota state government shutdown that started on July 1.
Increased activity was noted in consumer spending, residential construction, commercial
and residential real estate, services, manufacturing, energy and mining. Mixed activity was
noted in tourism and agriculture, while commercial construction was steady. Private sector
hiring grew modestly, and wage increases continued to be moderate. Overall price
increases were moderate, although pressure remains on a number of input prices.
Consumer Spending and Tourism
Consumer spending posted measured growth. A major Minneapolis-based retailer
reported that same-store sales in June increased over 4 percent compared with a year
earlier. Two Minneapolis area malls noted that recent sales were trending above year-ago
levels. A representative of an auto dealers association in Montana indicated that sales
activity at dealerships during the past few months increased over last year. A Minnesota
auto dealer noted that sales and service volumes were up from last year. Summer tourism activity was mixed. In western South Dakota, wet weather
dampened the start to the season, but summer reservations for RV camping were up about
2 percent. A travel agency in Minnesota noted that both corporate and leisure business
were up from a year ago. However, Minnesota state parks were closed during the
government shutdown. Flooding in North Dakota has slowed tourism activity, including
cancelation of this summer’s state fair in Minot.
Construction and Real Estate
Several contacts from across the District reported that recent commercial construction
activity was steady at low levels, while construction had stalled in flooded areas. A
nutritional supplement producer is building a major addition in Montana. However,
construction in the Minnesota transportation sector stalled during the state government
shutdown. Some private nonresidential construction was delayed by lack of state
government building inspectors. Residential construction increased from last year. The
value of residential building permits in June increased 19 percent from the same period a
year earlier in the Sioux Falls, S.D., area; in Minneapolis-St. Paul, the value of June
permits increased significantly from a year ago.

 IX-2 Commercial real estate markets increased slightly since the last report. Minnesota
commercial real estate industry representatives expect higher rents and lower vacancy
rates, according to a May survey by the University of St. Thomas. Retail real estate
industry analysts expect a slight increase in absorption, but decreases in rent over the
summer in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area. Residential real estate markets grew. Home
sales during June in Minneapolis-St. Paul and Billings, Mont., were up from last year’s
post-tax-credit lull in sales. June pending sales of homes in the Sioux Falls area increased
from June 2010, but new listings and the median sales price decreased.
Services
Professional business services firms reported increased activity over the past three
months. Results of a mid-July Minneapolis Fed ad hoc survey of 55 professional services
firms indicated that 47 percent of the respondents saw increased sales, while 29 percent
saw decreased sales. Respondents noted that profits and employment also increased. The
respondents expected this trend to continue over the next three months. However, a few
contacts commented that the Minnesota state government shutdown negatively affected
their business.
Manufacturing
The manufacturing sector grew modestly. A survey of purchasing managers by Creighton
University (Omaha, Neb.) showed that manufacturing activity increased in June in
Minnesota and South Dakota, while activity declined in North Dakota, due in part to
flooding disruptions. Nearly 70 percent of manufacturing respondents to the Minneapolis
Fed ad hoc survey said their sales increased in the past three months. However, in North
Dakota, an electric vehicle plant closed in June to consolidate production in Iowa, and a
military equipment plant will close in August.
Energy and Mining
Activity in the energy and mining sectors was steady. A renewable energy firm recently
announced that it will acquire a biodiesel plant in southern Minnesota, which has been
idle since 2008, and resume operations there. Wind-energy development projects
continued since the last report, including the opening of a 40-megawatt wind farm in
Minnesota. However, a utility announced that it was canceling plans for a $38 million
wind farm in western South Dakota. Mid-July oil exploration activity decreased slightly
from early June. Mining activity continued at a strong pace across the District.

 IX-3
Agriculture
Agriculture was mixed. While production in western portions of the District was
hampered by severe flooding, prices for agricultural outputs remained strong. Preliminary
estimates suggest that 6.3 million acres in North Dakota may have gone unplanted due to
flooding. Contacts suggested that impacts on hay and feed crops could increase costs for
some cattle producers, but a bank director noted that overall hay production in Montana
and the Dakotas will be very strong due to moisture conditions. In other parts of the
District, crop progress has fared better recently than early-season indicators suggested,
but is still behind last year’s pace. Prices for some District agricultural commodities
increased since the last report, including corn, soybeans and dairy products; however,
cattle and wheat prices decreased recently. Employment, Wages and Prices
While private sector hiring grew modestly, the Minnesota government shutdown resulted
in 22,000 temporary layoffs of state government employees. In Minnesota, a company
recently announced plans to build a data center that is expected to provide more than 100
jobs, and a steel producer will add 60 jobs this year. According to a survey by an
employment services firm, 20 percent of respondents in Minneapolis-St. Paul expect to
increase staffing levels during the third quarter, while 3 percent expect to decrease staff.
Businesses in eastern Montana and western North Dakota continued to have difficulty
finding workers due to strong oil drilling activity in the region. Wage increases were moderate. Recent settlements with labor unions generally
included modest wage increases over the next two to three years. According to
respondents to a recent St. Cloud (Minn.) Area Business Outlook Survey, 34 percent
expect to increase employee compensation at their companies over the next six months,
up from last year’s survey, when 24 percent expected increases. Overall price increases were moderate, although pressure remains on a number of
input prices. Mid-July Minnesota gasoline prices were about the same as early June, but
were $1 per gallon higher than a year ago. Meanwhile, prices for copper, lead, nickel and
zinc increased. A Minnesota-based food producer reported that food ingredients are
expected to rise at least 10 percent over the next year.

 X-1 TENTH DISTRICT - KANSAS CITY The Tenth District economy expanded at a moderate pace in the June and early July
survey period. Consumer spending rose solidly and was especially strong among restaurants and
auto dealers. Factory production rebounded from weakness in the prior survey period, and high-
tech and transportation services firms reported continued growth. District bankers reported
weaker loan demand but increased deposits and improved loan quality. Weak home sales and
expanded inventory levels further pressured single-family home prices, while commercial real
estate activity remained slow but stable. Activity in the energy sector was robust as drilling
expanded in most District states. Conditions in agriculture were generally strong. Rising input
costs were reported in several sectors, but wage pressures were limited to select industries and
occupations. Consumer Spending. Consumer spending increased at a solid pace in June and early
July, and most contacts expected sales gains in the months ahead. Auto dealers reported strong
sales despite reduced incentives, with demand strongest for small, fuel-efficient vehicles. Dealers
noted the continued benefit of low interest rates on sales and attributed some of the recent sales
boost to tornado damage in areas of Oklahoma and Missouri. Car and light truck inventory levels
were reported as generally satisfactory, although shortages remained for some Japanese
nameplates due to the tsunami. Restaurant sales accelerated in June, and the outlook for the
coming three months remained strong. However, restaurant profit margins were pressured by
increased food costs and a further decline in the average check amount. General retailers in the
District reported flat sales in the survey period, but activity remained well above year-ago levels.
Current retail inventories were viewed as adequate, but many retailers planned to expand
inventory in the coming months. Sales of low price consumer goods were strong, while sales of
many luxury items remained sluggish. District tourism visitor counts were generally up,
especially at Colorado mountain resorts, but were slowed by wildfires and drought in northern
New Mexico. District hoteliers reported increased occupancy and daily room rates. Manufacturing and Other Business Activity. Tenth District manufacturing activity
rebounded from weakness in the prior survey period, while high-tech and transportation activity
expanded further. Factory operators reported that both production and shipments bounced back
following weakness in May. The outlook among manufacturers remained positive as new orders

 X-2
and backlogs similarly rebounded. Inventories of finished goods were stable. Factory
employment increased in June for the eighth consecutive month and the average workweek
expanded slightly. Raw materials costs increased and put upward pressure on finished goods
prices. Factory operators also indicated slightly weaker capital spending plans in the coming six
months. Transportation services firms reported increased activity in the current survey period
and were optimistic about future bookings. Several trucking contacts cited continued difficulty
attracting qualified over-the-road drivers. Sales growth was strong at high-tech firms despite
some downward price pressure. High-tech firms remained optimistic about future sales gains and
planned to increase capital spending in coming months. Real Estate and Construction. Excess inventory weighed on single-family home
prices, while commercial real estate remained weak but stable. Real estate firms reported flat
existing home sales, higher home inventory, and lower home prices in June and early July.
Contacts reported an increased share of existing home purchases by investors in all-cash
transactions. Expectations for improvement in the housing sector were subdued. Home builders
reported little new construction activity but noted increased buyer traffic. Entry-level homes sold
well, along with high-end homes in some Colorado mountain resort communities. Apartment
managers reported higher rents and lower vacancy rates. In commercial leasing, absorption and
vacancy rates were flat, and only small declines in rent and prices were reported. Further
declines in rent and prices were expected and overall commercial leasing terms continued to
favor tenants. Commercial construction remained stable but weak, with strength reported in
multi-family residential projects. Builders indicated that access to credit improved slightly.
Construction supply firms reported increased sales since the last survey, though inventories
increased. Construction materials prices remained steady excluding petroleum-based products. Banking. In the recent survey period, bankers reported weaker loan demand but
increased deposits and improvements in loan quality. Overall loan demand was slightly weaker
than in the previous survey. Demand for residential real estate loans was unchanged, while
demand for commercial and industrial loans, commercial real estate loans, and consumer
installment loans decreased. Credit standards remained unchanged in all major loan categories,
and deposits increased for the fourth straight survey. Bankers reported improvements in loan
quality compared with a year ago and in the outlook for loan quality over the next six months.

 X-3 Energy. District energy activity expanded at a solid pace since the last survey, and
contacts expected continued growth in coming months. Drilling activity expanded in most
District states, however extended permitting delays were noted on Bureau of Land Management
sites in Wyoming. Oil and gas contacts expected little change in crude oil and natural gas prices
in the coming three months. Energy firms increased hiring in the current survey period but
reported difficulty finding qualified workers. Availability of equipment remained a constraint to
expansion, but financing was viewed as adequate. Weak coal production in the Powder River
Basin kept output well below year-ago levels. Ethanol production edged up with slightly higher
prices and profits this summer. Agriculture. Agricultural conditions varied with weather and input costs. Poor pasture
conditions due to drought in the Southern Plains prompted increased placements of cattle in
feedlots. However, initial reports on wheat yields in drought areas of Kansas and Oklahoma were
poor but better than expected. The corn and soybean crops were progressing normally and
generally rated in good or better condition, especially in Nebraska. Agricultural commodity
prices remained high but volatile in recent weeks, shifting with export and production forecasts.
Rising feed costs trimmed margins for livestock producers. Higher prices for fertilizer, fuel, and
feed boosted farm loan demand. Elevated crop prices fueled further gains in District cropland
values. Wages and Prices. District contacts reported only limited wage pressures but noted
additional upward pressure on input prices. Labor shortages and wage pressures were reported in
the retail sector and for select occupations in the high-tech, energy, and transportation sectors. In
addition, several contacts expected future non-wage employment costs to rise as a result of
increased state unemployment insurance premiums. Manufacturers reported continued upward
pressure on input costs; slightly fewer manufacturers reported increased finished product prices.
Builders reported higher overall prices for construction materials, and transportation contacts
remained concerned about the impact of high fuel costs on profit margins. Expectations across
most industries were for further input price increases in the coming three months. Restaurants
had raised menu prices since the last survey and expected further increases in the coming
months.

 XI-1 ELEVENTH DISTRICT—DALLAS The Eleventh District economy expanded at a moderate pace over the past six weeks. Energy-related
activity remained strong. Reports from manufacturers were mixed but mostly positive, although some
construction-related producers were less optimistic than they were six weeks ago. Nonfinancial services
activity rose, with strong demand for staffing services. The single-family housing sector remained weak, but
the commercial real estate sector continued to improve. Financial services respondents said overall loan
demand was flat during the reporting period, and contacts in the agricultural sector noted drought conditions
worsened. Prices Selling prices were flat or higher since the last report. Most manufacturers said selling prices
were stable, while several service sector companies were able to enact some price increases, including
transportation and retail firms. These price increases were in response to higher input prices. Accounting,
legal and staffing firms reported slight increases in rates charged for their services. Input prices increased at
most responding firms, although several contacts said upward pressure from higher energy costs eased in
recent weeks as oil prices declined. Transportation firms, including airlines, noted that the recent price
declines for fuel will have a larger impact on input costs later in July and August. Retailers said cost
pressures were squeezing margins, and food manufacturers said commodity prices were up significantly from
last year. The price of crude oil fell from over $100 per barrel in early June to about $95 at the end of the
reporting period in early July. Gasoline prices fell about 15 cents during the reporting period. Natural gas
prices remained in the $4-$5 per Mcf range, but edged up since the last report because of hot weather. Prices
for most petrochemical products fell since the last report, according to contacts. Labor Market   Employment levels held steady at most responding firms, although there were
several reports of hiring. Staffing firms reported continued strong demand for their services. In addition,
there were some mentions of moderate employment increases from automobile dealers, transportation service
firms and manufacturers of primary and fabricated metals, transportation equipment, lumber and food. Legal
firms noted solid demand for talented attorneys, and added that start dates for some new hires had been
moved up from January 2012 to fall 2011. In contrast, one construction-related manufacturer reported a new
round of layoffs, and one retail firm was considering reducing staff levels next year. Wage pressures
remained minimal, although some contacts noted that they were giving modest pay raises. Manufacturing Reports from construction-related manufacturers were mixed. Overall, activity
levels appeared to be unchanged. Multifamily activity provided a boost to some firms, although several
contacts said public and government demand had diminished. In particular though, fabricated metals
producers noted a pick-up in growth since the last report due to infrastructure projects. Construction-related

 XI-2
outlooks were generally flat to slightly up, and contacts believe there will not be much rebound until
residential and commercial construction recover, which may take longer than previously expected. Respondents in high-tech manufacturing reported that growth in orders remained at a moderate pace
since the last Beige Book. One respondent with greater-exposure-than-average to Japanese production said
second-quarter sales were well below pre-earthquake expectations, but that growth in June was strong
enough to finish the quarter slightly above their expectations. Inventories were at desired levels, although one
respondent said that a one-time reduction in orders from a customer left them with slightly higher-than-
desired levels. Most contacts expect orders and sales growth to remain moderate or to pick up slightly in the
second half of the year. Reports from paper manufacturers were mixed. Demand for corrugated packaging improved, but
paper suppliers noted flat to slightly slower sales. Manufacturers of non-defense transportation equipment
reported strong sales with demand flat to slightly up since the last report and well above year-ago levels.
Food producers said sales continued to rise at a steady pace. Petrochemical producers said demand remained strong for most products. Contacts said domestic
demand has improved, and export markets have re-opened since the last report. Refinery utilization moved
up to near 90 percent, and contacts in the refining industry said margins narrowed slightly but remained very
strong, although demand for oil products is slightly lower than the same time last year. Retail Sales   Retailers reported a slight increase in activity over the reporting period. Compared to a
year ago, same store sales are up in the mid-to-low single digits. Apparel and jewelry are segments that have
performed well recently. Concerns remain regarding the elevated level of unemployment. Texas sales
increased slightly more than the nation on average, according to one large retailer. The second half of the
year should see modest year-over-year growth. Automobile demand remains strong, but supply constraints
stemming from Japan are limiting sales. Japanese manufacturers are primarily affected, but inventories of
domestic autos are below desired levels as well. This is expected to last for another 90 days or less before
improving through year-end.  
   Non-financial Services Staffing firms reported continued strong demand for their services. Temp-
to-hire activity has been a bright spot, with long assignment lengths and several conversions to permanent
hires. Outlooks are cautiously optimistic, with most respondents expecting continued strength in demand
through year-end. Accounting firms noted a seasonal slowdown in demand for their services. Legal firms
reported mostly steady demand, with continued growth in transactional services. Intermodal cargo volumes increased since the last report, but year-over-year volumes are down due
to a sharp decline in Asian demand for raw materials. Contacts in railroad transportation noted a broad-based
increase in shipments, with particularly strong volume growth in metallic and nonmetallic ores and grains.
Container volumes declined during the reporting period, although contacts said demand has strengthened

 XI-3
from a year ago, due to energy-related activity. Small parcel shipments rebounded in June after declining in
May. Still, outlooks are more pessimistic than previously reported, partly due to high fuel costs dampening
consumer spending. Airlines report some softening in demand in June compared with May, likely due to an
increase in airfares for last-minute travel. However, passenger volumes are up on a year-over-year basis, and
the outlook for the summer is positive. Financial Services   Financial firms reported relatively flat loan demand. National banks reported
less pickup in corporate loan demand following a very active first half of the year, while commercial real
estate (CRE) activity has continued its trend of improvement. Regional banks noted that loan demand has
been mixed, while loan pricing remains aggressive amidst a highly competitive lending landscape. Outlooks
are generally positive in light of better outstanding loan quality and continued gradual improvement in
lending conditions. Optimism has been tempered by consumer fear regarding economic and fiscal policy
uncertainty as well as the burden and costs associated with the implementation of new regulations.   Construction and Real Estate Single-family home sales remain weak, particularly in the lower
priced segment of the market. Contacts say demand is choppy from month to month, but most expect some
improvement in the second half of the year. Apartment demand remains strong and rents continue to increase. Contacts noted the Dallas/Fort
Worth area topped the national rankings in leasing activity in the second quarter. Office and industrial real estate activity improved since the last report. Contacts say Texas markets
are performing better than the national average overall. One respondent noted office demand was quite
strong in Texas’ major metros and that rents were starting to rise. Investment property sales continued to
improve from low levels, and prices rose slightly. Energy Domestic drilling activity remained strong since the last report, according to Eleventh
District firms in the energy industry. The rig count continues to shift towards oil-directed drilling, and
contacts noted horizontal drilling and fracturing activity remain very profitable. In the Gulf of Mexico, 15
rigs have been re-permitted—with seven currently working and near completion—although a lack of new
permits this year has led to some concerns about the prospects for Gulf work later in the year. International
activity remains strong, but profit margins are thin. Agriculture Drought conditions worsened, with about three-quarters of the district now in the most
severe drought classification. Most Texas counties were designated natural disaster areas in June because
they lost at least 30 percent of crops and pasture to drought. President Obama signed a disaster declaration in
July for 45 counties in Texas that were heavily impacted by wildfires, which allows federal aid to help with
recovery efforts. Crop conditions continued to deteriorate, causing low yields and complete crop losses in
some instances. Farmers will depend heavily on crop insurance payments this year. Ranchers continued to
cull herds due to very poor grazing conditions, limited hay supply and costly supplemental feeding.

 XII-1 TWELFTH DISTRICT–SAN FRANCISCO
Summary Economic activity in the Twelfth District grew modestly during the reporting period of June
through mid-July. Upward price pressures eased overall as the prices of oil and selected raw materials
fell, and upward pressures on wages remained quite limited on balance. Sales of retail items were mixed,
while demand for business and consumer services rose somewhat. District manufacturing activity
strengthened slightly. Sales continued to grow for agricultural producers, while mining and extraction
activity for natural resources expanded further. Home sales and construction remained sluggish, and
demand for commercial real estate was weak overall, although continued modest strengthening was noted
for some areas. Contacts from financial institutions reported largely stable loan demand.
Wages and Prices Upward price pressures were limited during the reporting period. Price declines were noted for
oil and selected raw materials such as aluminum. Furthermore, modest demand and stiff competition
continued to hold down final prices for most retail goods and services, although food prices remained
quite elevated. Looking ahead, contacts in most sectors anticipate that prices for their products will
remain largely stable to slightly up through the end of the year, with larger gains expected for apparel. Contacts reported that upward wage pressures were very modest overall, although some pointed
to notable increases in the costs of employee benefits. Compensation gains in most regions and sectors of
the District continued to be held down by high unemployment and limited hiring activity. However,
upward wage pressures remained pronounced in various sectors for workers with specialized skills in the
application of information technology.
Retail Trade and Services Retail sales were mixed. Sales were largely flat for discount chains, while traditional department
stores, particularly those catering to the luxury segment of the market, noted ongoing sales gains.
Similarly, retailers of big-ticket items such as major appliances and furniture reported modest sales
increases since the prior reporting period. Grocery sales remained largely flat. Sales of new automobiles

 XII-2
declined, as lingering supply chain disruptions associated with the natural disaster in Japan earlier this
year significantly reduced dealer inventories. In response to the shortage of new vehicles, dealer demand
for used vehicles ramped up, further bolstering sales prices and trade-in values. Demand for business and consumer services increased on balance. Sales continued to expand for
providers of technology services, in particular for digital media services used for Internet-capable mobile
devices. By contrast, demand for transportation services remained largely flat, as did demand for
professional services. Suppliers of energy services reported further growth in deliveries to households
and businesses, although the pace of growth slowed. Providers of health-care services reported that
demand for their services remained weak. Restaurants and other food-service providers saw demand
soften slightly. However, conditions continued to improve in the travel and tourism industry, with further
demand growth reported in both the business and tourism segments of the market.
Manufacturing District manufacturing activity strengthened a bit further during the reporting period of June
through mid-July. Production rates remained near capacity for makers of commercial aircraft and parts.
Demand improved modestly for manufacturers of semiconductors and other technology products, with
reports pointing to high levels of capacity utilization, continued growth in sales, and inventories that were
at or near desired levels given the pace of sales. Production activity and sales improved somewhat for
metal fabricators, with gains in foreign demand more than offsetting weak domestic demand. Similarly,
capacity utilization rates remained largely stable for petroleum refiners, as export growth for gasoline and
distillate products helped to reduce inventories. Demand continued to be especially weak for wood
product manufacturers, with the exception of the pulp and paper sector, which has seen sustained
increases in orders.
Agriculture and Resource-related Industries Demand continued to grow for agricultural products, and it expanded further on net for mined
products and natural resources used for energy production. Final sales and orders were robust and
continued to grow for a range of crop and livestock products. Contacts generally noted stable input costs

 XII-3
and supply conditions, although wildfires in Arizona caused widespread destruction of grazing land,
prompting ranchers to reduce their stocks and causing sharp financial losses in some cases. Mining
activity in parts of the District expanded further in response to elevated prices for an assortment of metals.
Strong global demand for oil combined with a slight increase in domestic demand, prompting additional
increases in extraction activity, and extraction of natural gas was largely stable or grew somewhat.
Real Estate and Construction Home demand in the District was essentially unchanged at very low levels, and demand for
commercial real estate remained weak, albeit with further modest improvement in some areas. The pace
of home sales remained sluggish across the District, putting downward pressure on prices and the pace of
new home construction, although sales of existing homes picked up a bit in parts of California. In
contrast to homeownership, demand for rental space continued to grow, prompting rent increases and
rising construction activity for multifamily units in some areas. Conditions in commercial real estate
markets remained challenging, as vacancy rates for office and industrial space stayed high in many parts
of the District. However, contacts continued to note improvement in investor demand and leasing activity
in a few major markets, primarily in the San Francisco Bay Area and Seattle.
Financial Institutions District banking contacts reported that loan demand was little changed on balance compared with
the previous reporting period. Businesses’ cautious approach to capital spending continued to restrain
demand for commercial and industrial loans, although scattered reports pointed to intensifying
competition among lenders to extend credit to well-qualified small and medium-sized businesses.
Looking ahead, reports from contacts in most sectors suggest that capital spending will expand only
modestly through the duration of the year. Consumer loan demand was largely unchanged. Lending
standards remained relatively restrictive for most categories of business and consumer loans. Venture
capital financing expanded further, with contacts noting heightened levels of IPO activity.

