 For use at 2:00 p.m., E.D.T. Wednesday August 29, 2012
Summary of Commentary on ____________________ Current Economic Conditions By Federal Reserve District August 2012

SUMMARY OF COMMENTARY ON CURRENT ECONOMIC CONDITIONS BY FEDERAL RESERVE DISTRICTS August 2012

 TABLE OF CONTENTS
SUMMARY ……………………………………………………………….….…... i
First District – Boston …………………………………………………….……..I-1
Second District – New York …………………………………………….…….. II-1
Third District – Philadelphia …………………………………………………..III-1
Fourth District – Cleveland ……………………..…………………….…….... IV-1
Fifth District – Richmond ………………………………………………….….. V-1
Sixth District – Atlanta …………………………………………………….…. VI-1
Seventh District – Chicago ……………………………………………….…...VII-1
Eighth District – St. Louis …………..…………………………………..……VIII-1
Ninth District – Minneapolis …………….…………………………………… IX-1
Tenth District – Kansas City …………….…………………………………….. X-1
Eleventh District – Dallas ……………….………..…………………..………. XI-1
Twelfth District – San Francisco ..……….……………….………………….. XII-1

 i Summary * Reports from the twelve Federal Reserve Districts suggest economic activity continued to expand
gradually in July and early August across most regions and sectors. Six Districts indicated the local
economy continued to expand at a modest pace and another three cited moderate growth; among the
latter, Chicago noted that the pace of growth had slowed from the prior period. The Philadelphia and
Richmond Districts reported slow growth in most sectors and declines in manufacturing, while Boston
cited mixed reports from business contacts and some slowdown since the previous report. Most Districts indicated that retail activity, including auto sales, had increased since the last
Beige Book report, although Cleveland, Chicago, St. Louis, Dallas, and San Francisco noted the retail
improvements were small. Atlanta said that retail growth had slowed, while Philadelphia indicated growth
in retail sales was somewhat faster than in the previous report. Boston, New York, Richmond, Atlanta,
Minneapolis, and San Francisco recorded strong performance in tourism. Many Districts reported some
softening in manufacturing, either a slowdown in the rate of growth or a decline in the level of sales,
output, or orders; among those with declining shipments and orders, Philadelphia noted that the rate of
decline was tempering. Districts mentioning nonfinancial services noted increased activity, although at a slowing pace in
Boston, softening in New York, and “flattening” in Philadelphia; Kansas City reported that sales of high-
tech services declined slightly. Several Districts cited declining demand for staffing services. According
to District reports, bankers in New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago, and Kansas City saw
increases in demand for most loan types in recent months; by contrast, St. Louis, Dallas, and San
Francisco indicated that loan demand was mixed, softening, or slightly weaker. Real estate markets were generally said to be improving. On the residential side, all 12 Districts
cited increases in home sales, home prices, or housing construction. Reports on commercial real estate
* Prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston and based on information collected on or before August 20, 2012.
This document summarizes comments received from business and other contacts outside the Federal Reserve and is
not a commentary on the views of Federal Reserve officials

 ii
markets were also generally positive, although San Francisco noted stable demand, Boston indicated
conditions were not much changed since the last report, and Richmond, Chicago, and St. Louis said
commercial real estate conditions were mixed. District reports indicated that energy and mining activity was generally high and increasing.
However, Cleveland noted softening demand for coal, while Minneapolis and Kansas City had some
energy sectors up and some down. The Midwest drought has reduced actual and expected farm output,
especially cotton, soybean, and/or corn crops in the Chicago, Kansas City, and St. Louis Districts. Most Districts reported that the selling prices of manufacturing and retail products were largely
stable. By exception, several Districts noted concerns about rising agricultural commodity prices, and
Richmond mentioned a small uptick in retail prices. Hiring was said to be modest across the Districts, and
wage pressures were characterized as contained.
Consumer Spending and Tourism Most Districts reported that retail spending in July and early August was up compared with the
previous Beige Book. New York and San Francisco noted strengthening sales compared with a softer
May and June, although in San Francisco’s case, the rise was only “a bit further.” Philadelphia,
Richmond, Minneapolis, and Kansas City reported stronger retail sales, while Cleveland, Chicago, St.
Louis, and Dallas all said that sales were up “slightly.” In the Atlanta District, most retail contacts
reported slower sales, while Boston’s retail contacts provided a mixed assessment. The Atlanta and San
Francisco reports noted that discount retailers performed better than traditional department stores, while
the Chicago report attributed the pace of growth in consumer spending to heavy discounting by retailers
clearing space for back-to-school items. Boston and Chicago reported continuing weakness in furniture
sales; Boston also reported weak sales of electronics, but Chicago noted some improvement in this
category. Adult clothing sold well in Boston, Chicago, and Dallas. The Atlanta District said that luxury
goods merchants, while still largely positive, provided more mixed reports compared with earlier this
year; Kansas City cited weaker sales for high-end jewelry. For the remainder of 2012, Boston retailers
have mixed sales expectations, Philadelphia retailers are cautiously optimistic, and those in Atlanta are

 iii
conservative; retail contacts in Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas expect sales to rise through the end
of the year. Automobile sales are up in the New York, Philadelphia, Atlanta, St. Louis, Minneapolis, and
Kansas City Districts, flat in Cleveland, Chicago, and Dallas, and a bit slower paced in Richmond and
San Francisco; nonetheless, vehicle demand in the latter two Districts is still strong, especially for used
cars. The New York District reported that new car sales are “particularly robust” and Kansas City cited a
sharp increase in new vehicle sales. Atlanta, St. Louis, and Kansas City indicated that car dealers in their
Districts expected these strong automobile sales to continue, while the Philadelphia and Dallas Districts
reported concerns that consumer uncertainty might depress vehicle sales in coming months. Respondents in the Boston, New York, Richmond, Atlanta, Minneapolis, and San Francisco
Districts reported that tourist industry performance remains strong. The Atlanta District mentioned that
Florida contacts reported a drop in European travelers, but said this decline was offset by an increase in
business from Central and South America. Contacts in Boston noted some concern that weakness in
Europe could soften tourist activity and that rising gas prices could affect leisure travel. The San
Francisco District reported that the pace of growth had slowed in Las Vegas and other areas.
Manufacturing and Related Services The picture in manufacturing was mixed. The Boston, Chicago, Kansas City and San Francisco
Districts reported increasing demand and sales since the previous Beige Book, although the improvement
was generally small and uneven, with two of these four Districts reporting that demand growth, while
positive, was slowing. Six Districts reported that demand for manufactured goods was actually falling,
although none reported a dramatic fall. The outlook was somewhat more positive, with six Districts
reporting that manufacturers expected increasing demand and only two reporting the opposite. Areas of strength were varied. The Cleveland and Philadelphia Districts both pointed to the
revolution in natural gas production in the United States as a driver of demand, but the Chicago District
said that a contact blamed cheap natural gas for weakness in demand for coal. Several Districts noted that
improvements in residential construction boosted demand for products such as lumber, PVC, cement, and

 iv
home goods. The Chicago and Philadelphia Districts said that auto production was positive, but
Richmond said the opposite. Weakness overseas remains a problem for U.S. manufacturing. Reports from the Boston, Atlanta,
and Chicago Districts explicitly mentioned it. Although Europe represented one notable problem, several
Districts also mentioned weakness in demand in Asia as an issue. In general, District reports indicate that
the cost and availability of raw materials has not been an issue for manufacturers recently, especially as
compared with the situation in previous years. Four Districts reported lower input costs, but contacts in
New York reported a slight increase. On the employment front, there was little movement. Across all Districts, few manufacturing
firms reported any major hiring or layoffs, and the ones that did usually attributed it to idiosyncratic
factors like new products or restructuring related to a merger. The Cleveland District reported that firms
continued to have trouble finding skilled workers. Capital spending also showed little change; in addition,
several Districts reported that contacted manufacturers had not revised their investment plans.
Nonfinancial Services Activity in nonfinancial services generally picked up since the previous report, although results
were mixed across Districts and service industries. New York and Philadelphia reported that overall
service-sector activity was flat to down slightly, whereas Minneapolis and San Francisco noted expanding
activity. Several Districts, including Boston, Richmond, and San Francisco, reported steady to increasing
demand for information technology services; Kansas City, by contrast, cited decreased sales at high-tech
services firms. Reports from the healthcare sector were also somewhat mixed, with Philadelphia and St.
Louis reporting positive results and San Francisco noting a drop in the frequency of elective procedures.
Advertisers in the Philadelphia and San Francisco Districts continued to report strong revenues. In the
Dallas District, legal firms reported continued increases in demand for services, while accounting firms
cited seasonal slowness. Demand for staffing services was generally lower than expected, with decreases
reported by Boston, New York, Richmond, and Dallas. Even so, demand remained strong for highly
skilled IT personnel in the Boston and Richmond Districts.

 v Reports on transportation services were generally positive. Rail contacts reported continued
increases in intermodal shipments in the Atlanta District and increased cargo volumes in the Dallas
District, with both Districts recognizing gains in lumber shipments. Atlanta and Dallas also reported
steady to increasing demand for trucking services, whereas logistics firms and carriers in the Philadelphia
District reported a relatively sluggish start to the traditional “freight season.”
Banking and Financial Services Credit conditions have improved over the reporting period according to District reports. Credit
spreads were lower and competition for high-quality borrowers among lending institutions has increased.
The New York District noted that shrinking spreads were observed particularly in commercial and
industrial loans as well as in commercial mortgages. Some bankers in the Cleveland District mentioned a
moderate loosening of lending guidelines. The New York, St. Louis, and Kansas City Districts reported
unchanged credit standards; New York and Cleveland cited declining delinquency rates. The direction and magnitude of changes in loan demand varied among the Districts and also with
respect to type of loan. The Richmond and Atlanta Districts reported generally low demand for loans, but
some pockets of growth. The Chicago District noted that growth in business loan demand was generated
mostly from small and mid-size firms and for the purpose of refinancing rather than financing capital
expenditures. Cleveland, St. Louis, and San Francisco mentioned small positive or negative changes in
business credit demand, and relatively strong demand for consumer credit. The Kansas City District
reported stable demand for commercial and industrial loans and commercial real estate loans, while
Dallas noted softer demand for loans overall; however, both Districts cited increases in demand for
residential real estate loans. The New York and Philadelphia Districts observed growth in most lending
categories.
Real Estate and Construction Housing markets across most Districts exhibited signs of improvement, with sales and
construction continuing to increase. Dallas reported significant levels of buyer traffic, Richmond noted
strong pending sales, and Minneapolis and St. Louis mentioned increases in building permits. New York,

 vi
Philadelphia, and Chicago indicated improvements as well, but characterized the progress as slow and
modest. Declines in inventory levels were reported in Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Atlanta, Dallas,
and San Francisco; these declining inventories put some upward pressure on prices according to Boston,
Atlanta, and Dallas. A reduction in the stock of distressed properties was mentioned in New York,
Richmond, and San Francisco. In Philadelphia and Kansas City, the possibility of shadow inventory
entering the market remains a concern. In general, outlooks were positive, with continued increases in
activity expected, although the projected gains were more modest in Boston, Cleveland, and Kansas City. Commercial real estate market conditions held steady or improved in nearly all Districts in recent
weeks. New York, Philadelphia, Minneapolis, and Kansas City all reported that commercial leasing
increased and vacancy rates fell. New York and Kansas City reported increases in office rents as well;
Kansas City also cited a rise in commercial construction. Commercial building permits were up
significantly from one year ago in portions of the Minneapolis District. Chicago’s report was mixed:
office vacancy rates remained high, restraining demand for new office construction, but office leasing
demand improved modestly and industrial construction picked up. Atlanta reported rising apartment rents
and small gains in office leasing, with weakness in the retail and industrial sectors. Boston reported that
office fundamentals were flat on average, with rising rents in portions of Boston proper and muted but
steady activity elsewhere in the District. Nonresidential construction picked up in the Boston and
Cleveland Districts. Office and industrial real estate markets remained healthy in Dallas. The St. Louis
report noted an increase in commercial construction across much of the District and varied reports on
leasing across areas within the District. In San Francisco, demand for commercial property was stable
while commercial construction was limited. Richmond reported a decline in office leasing volume in
Washington, D.C., but some portions of the District recorded increasing sales and construction.
Multifamily real estate remained a strong submarket and a key driver of construction in many Districts,
including Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago, Minneapolis, Dallas, and San
Francisco.

 vii
Agriculture and Natural Resources According to District reports, agricultural conditions were mixed largely because of severe
drought conditions that affected the Midwest more than the rest of the country. Producers in the Chicago,
St. Louis, and Kansas City Districts were all severely affected by the drought, with cotton, soybean, and
corn crops particularly damaged. Cotton production in the Dallas District was also badly damaged, while
the northern part of the Minneapolis District reported good corn, soybean, and wheat crops, and the San
Francisco and Richmond Districts reported strong demand for their healthy cotton crops. Although nearly
all agricultural commodity prices rose, higher feed costs led to reduced herd sizes and lower livestock
prices in nearly all Districts reporting on livestock. Reports from the Richmond and Kansas City Districts
indicated that farmland values have continued to rise, although contacts in the Kansas City District
expected them to hold steady for the rest of the year. Farm incomes generally rose or stayed the same in
the Minneapolis District. Oil and gas activity continued to be robust across most Districts. Extraction of natural gas and
petroleum remained at high levels in the Dallas and Minneapolis Districts and expanded in the Cleveland
and Richmond Districts, partly because of increased demand from electrical utilities. Production increased
in Gulf Coast oil refineries in the Atlanta District as a result of closures along the East Coast, while higher
demand for crude oil, diesel, and other distillates supported prices. However, natural gas producers in the
Cleveland, Richmond, Minneapolis, and Dallas Districts reported a decline in exploration and drilling of
new wells on account of high inventories and low prices. Coal demand was unchanged from 2011 in the
St. Louis District but was expected to fall below 2011 levels in the Cleveland District due to reduced
demand for thermal coal from domestic utilities and metallurgical coal from Europe and Asia. Iron ore,
taconite, and sand mines in the Minneapolis District continued to operate at high capacity.
Employment, Wages, and Prices Most Districts reported that employment was holding steady or growing only slightly. Several
Districts including Boston, New York, Philadelphia, and Richmond noted a softening in employment
relative to expectations; upcoming layoffs were reported by a defense contractor in the Boston District

 viii
and by firms in sectors such as air transportation, appliances, and business support services in the St Louis
District. Almost all Districts indicated that manufacturers were continuing to hire, albeit modestly.
Demand has been strongest for skilled manufacturing and engineering positions, as well as for IT
services. Contacts in the Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts all reported
some difficulty meeting demand for truck drivers. Overall, upward wage pressure was reported to be very contained across Districts. The
Philadelphia and Chicago Districts both noted that despite little wage pressure, some contacts reported
upward pressures for medical benefits. Sources from Boston and Atlanta mentioned that continuing
demand was putting some upward pressure on wages for highly-skilled positions in software, engineering,
and information technology. The San Francisco District also noted specialized IT positions as an
exception to generally limited wage growth. The Dallas District reported upward wage pressure for truck
drivers and construction workers, and the Minneapolis District noted wage increases in areas with
increased oil drilling. Most Districts reported that overall prices for finished goods were relatively stable despite
somewhat increased input prices. Higher prices for grain and other food commodities were cited by many
Districts, primarily due to the drought. The Cleveland District noted increased upward pressure on lumber
prices, while contacts in Boston, Philadelphia, and Minneapolis reported higher gasoline prices as a
potential concern. Chicago mentioned some pass-through of higher crop prices to wholesale prices, while
contacts in the Kansas City and Richmond Districts expected to raise future prices in response to more
expensive raw materials.

 I-1 FIRST DISTRICT – BOSTON Reports from business contacts in the First District are somewhat mixed. Tourism contacts and
some retailers cite strong results, but other merchants are more downbeat. Manufacturers mostly report
solid performance, but a couple have seen sales fall compared with a year earlier. Software and IT
services firms indicate business is good, but somewhat slower than three months ago, while staffing firms
say recent results are below expectations. Commercial real estate conditions are not much changed, with
the Boston market said to be stronger than the rest of New England; gradual recovery continues in most
residential real estate markets around the region. Business contacts say they are hiring only modestly;
prices are generally reported to be stable. Outlooks remain uncertain.
Retail and Tourism First District retail contacts offer a very mixed take on economic conditions in the region.
Demand remains strong for adult clothing, but spending on durable items such as furniture and electronics
continues to be lower than earlier in the year. Some companies cite disappointing sales during the last six
weeks, while others report some upside surprises. Sales results range from low single-digit declines to
high single-digit increases compared with a year earlier. Some contacts say that consumer sentiment has
become more negative, while others observe that consumers are “coming back.” Retailers note wholesale
prices remain flat so they are holding selling prices steady. Respondents still express uncertainty about the
direction of the U.S. economy and say they expect little improvement over the next six to eight months. The tourism industry continues to see growth. Contacts expect that overall 2012 performance will
be strong, but express concern that performance will weaken over the last few months of the year. While a
rebound in business travel has fueled 2012 performance to date, weakness in Europe might slow this
down. Moreover, rising gas prices could have negative repercussions for leisure travel.
Manufacturing and Related Services The general manufacturing picture in the First District continues to be mixed, although contacts
seem to be slightly more upbeat than earlier this summer. Of 12 contacted firms, only two report lower
overall sales than a year earlier: A manufacturer of semiconductors attributes the decline largely to
industry-specific cycles and a software company that sells mostly into the defense business says slower
sales reflect fears about impending sequestration. All other responding firms report flat or rising sales. On the employment front, while most contacts say they are hiring, none reports any significant
additions. A major defense contractor expects significant layoffs in the coming months but attributes them
largely to rationalization of operations in the wake of a merger. A tool manufacturer blames weak demand
for a 5 percent headcount reduction but says they will concentrate most of the layoffs in Europe. On the
plus side, a luxury goods manufacturer reports that, for the first time since 2008, workers are quitting to
take better jobs with other firms. A firm in the chemical industry indicates it is exceptionally profitable
but is still hiring only “selectively” to replace outgoing workers and fill specific needs. Few manufacturers report revising their investment plans in recent months; several note that they
have plenty of cash available but don’t yet feel confident or see the need for additional capital spending.
Several firms mention that merger and acquisition activity is heating up. Some say they hope to pick up

 I-2
bargains but others say that prices are too high. A contact in the chemical industry says that he has done
due diligence on several potential targets and each time he was outbid. A respondent in the semiconductor
industry reports that they were the target of acquisition interest and a medical device supplier was recently
acquired by Japanese firm. Contacts say the pricing picture is much more benign than it has been in recent years. A dairy
business is the only respondent complaining of high input prices, which are specifically related to the
drought in the Midwest. A contact in the chemical business reports that pricing of inputs to his processes
is exceptionally good, which he attributes to weakness in China, Brazil, and India. Few manufacturing contacts have significantly revised their outlooks. The main concerns remain
the so-called “fiscal cliff” and the situation in Europe. Europe does not seem to be as much of an issue as
it has been in recent cycles, however, with only four contacts specifically mentioning it and only one
identifying it as a major problem. Two respondents independently note that firms are paying bills on time,
which they say is a good sign about the state of the economy.
Software and Information Technology Services New England software and information technology services contacts report flat to favorable
results in the second quarter of 2012, with year-over-year revenue increases generally between 5 percent
and 10 percent. Contacts report strong demand in the banking and medical sectors as well as some new
activity in the automotive, telecommunications, and manufacturing sectors. However, these upticks in
demand are, for many contacts, tempered by the strong dollar and economic uncertainties, particularly in
Europe, which are having an increasingly negative effect on revenues. Indeed, one contact reports that
revenues from Europe fell more than 50 percent over the four quarters ended in Q2, as many clients
delayed execution of big license agreements. Most respondents continue to add to their headcounts,
although a few have slowed the rate at which they are hiring. Capital and technology spending and selling
prices have gone largely unchanged since February. The outlook among software and IT services contacts is not appreciably different from that of
three months ago. Most are cautiously optimistic and expect current growth rates to continue into 2013.
Staffing Services New England staffing firms generally report lighter-than-expected volumes through mid-August,
with most contacts characterizing business as “slow” or “flat.” The May-to-August dip reportedly reflects
a softening of demand for office and clerical assistants and light industrial workers. Nevertheless, year-
over-year revenue changes in the second quarter remained largely positive, bolstered by steady demand
from the engineering, legal, and IT sectors. The number of permanent and temporary-to-permanent
placements continues to grow slowly, with one contact noting that clients are “definitely more willing to
commit.” Labor supply has gone largely unchanged since May. Contacts continue to have difficulty
finding candidates with high-end skill sets such as mechanical and electrical engineers, software
developers, and IT personnel; two contacts report that this shortage of qualified labor is putting upward
pressure on pay rates and recruiting costs. Looking forward, staffing contacts are slightly less upbeat than
they were 3 months ago. Most expect only modest growth until 2013.

 I-3
Commercial Real Estate Commercial real estate fundamentals held roughly steady in recent weeks across the First District.
Boston continues to enjoy strong leasing demand in pockets of the city and comparatively slow but steady
activity in the Financial District. Leasing activity remains light in Hartford, where the retail sector is seen
as a weak point. Activity in Providence is mixed across sectors and year-to-date has fallen short of
expectations as a result of vacancy shocks. In Portland, office leasing activity is up from earlier in the
year, but rents have stayed roughly flat. Across the District, a few contacts note that traditional downtown
tenant types, such as law firms and large financial firms, continue to reduce square footage of office space
per worker. These reductions are viewed as structural and suggest that future employment growth in
professional services may lead to less absorption than previous norms of office space would imply. Investor interest in Greater Boston commercial real estate remains high, especially for
multifamily rental properties, and interest rate spreads are lower than a year earlier for comparable deals.
Apartment construction extended its recent boom in the city and some large build-to-suit office projects
have broken ground in recent months. One Boston-based bank lender notes an increase in small-scale
(under $10M) loan demand in recent months in the office and retail sectors. Outside of Boston,
construction and investment sales activity remain limited. A few contacts remark that political uncertainty
is putting a damper on business sentiment. In particular, the threat of tax hikes (at all levels of
government) is seen as a possible restraint on economic activity in the coming months. By contrast, no
contacts cite significant upside risks to growth in the commercial property sector, although Boston is
expected to remain a magnet for investors.
Residential Real Estate Sales of single-family homes and condominiums continued to grow year-over-year in June and
July throughout most of the First District. However, in Connecticut, June sales increased marginally in
the single-family home market and declined year-over-year in the condo market, but the latest reports for
July suggest more substantial increases in Connecticut home sales. Similar to previous reports, contacts
cite low interest rates and prices, in addition to pent-up demand, as significant factors in improving sales
activity. According to a contact in Greater Boston, rising residential rents continue to spur interest in
home ownership. Reports for July suggest the median sales price of homes rose in five of the six New
England states; the exception was Rhode Island, where prices continue to decline. Contacts outside of
Rhode Island cite declining inventory as the cause for modest price appreciation. Several contacts in areas
with low inventory levels note some potential sellers are waiting for their homes to appreciate in value
before listing them. Falling inventories in Greater Boston have prompted concern among local real estate
professionals that potential homebuyers will be discouraged by an insufficient variety of homes. Consecutive months of year-over-year growth in sales have made contacts feel more confident
about recovery in the housing market. In areas where inventory levels have been high for the past few
years, concerns have been calmed by declining inventory and increasing home prices. Most contacts
predict year-over-year growth in sales, albeit at a slower pace than recently, and anticipate modest
increases in the median sale price of homes in coming months.

 II-1 SECOND DISTRICT--NEW YORK The Second District’s economy has continued to expand at a modest pace since the last
report. Despite some pickup in commodity price pressures, prices of finished goods and services
have generally been stable. There have been scattered signs of softening in the labor market: while
manufacturers continue to add workers, firms in other industries have scaled back hiring. A growing
number of contacts in both manufacturing and other sectors report some softening in business
conditions. Retailers, however, report generally favorable results: auto dealers note that sales remain
fairly strong, and non-auto retailers report some recent improvement. Tourism activity has remained
strong. Residential real estate markets have shown signs of improvement, and Manhattan’s office
market picked up slightly. Finally, bankers report increased loan demand, no change in credit
standards, and further declines in delinquency rates.
Consumer Spending Retailers report that sales activity has firmed somewhat since the last report. Two major retail
chains report that sales in the region were on plan in July and ahead of plan in early August.
Similarly a major retail mall in upstate New York reports some firming in sales, as well as shopper
traffic, in July and early August, following lackluster business in May and June. Retail prices
continue to be described as steady—including apparel prices, which had previously been expected to
drift down with the retreat in cotton prices earlier this year. Stores in New York City have performed
on par or modestly better than those in the rest of the region. Inventories are generally said to be at
or slightly above desired levels. Auto dealers in upstate New York continue to report strong sales. New vehicle sales are
characterized as particularly robust—up 14 percent from a year earlier—in the Rochester area.
Buffalo-area dealers are seeing gains of about 7 percent. Sales of used cars and business at dealers’
service departments are also described as fairly robust. Wholesale and retail credit conditions remain
favorable.

 II-2 Tourism activity has been mixed but generally strong since the last report. Hotels occupancy
rates in the Albany and Buffalo areas have climbed and are well ahead of year-earlier levels. New
York City hotels indicate that revenues per room were up roughly 6 percent from a year ago in June
but up by a more modest 2 percent in July, as growth in room rates slowed and occupancy rates
leveled off at close to 90 percent. With a 2-3 percent increase in the total number of hotel rooms in
the city, this suggests continued fairly brisk growth in tourism activity. Attendance at Broadway
theatres picked up in July and remained robust in early August, running 4-5 percent ahead of a year
earlier, while revenue was up roughly 10 percent, reflecting higher ticket prices.
Construction and Real Estate Housing markets across the District have shown further signs of modest improvement since
the last report. The housing market in the Buffalo area continued to show strength through mid-July,
though activity has dropped off in recent weeks—to a greater extent than the seasonal norm.
Northern New Jersey’s housing market has bottomed and is showing scattered signs of improvement,
according to an industry expert. This contact also maintains that internal market fundamentals are
favorable: low and declining inventories, pent up demand, high affordability and a steady reduction
in the foreclosure pipeline Manhattan’s co-op and condo market has been fairly active since mid-
year, relative to the normal seasonal pattern of slowing. In particular, there has been strong activity
at the very high end (for “trophy properties”) and also for entry-level apartments, driven in part by
low mortgage rates. There has been more significant improvement reported in Brooklyn and
especially in Queens, where an inventory glut has evaporated surprisingly quickly, according to one
contact. New York City apartment rents have continued to rise across all segments, and Albany’s
rental market has strengthened noticeably, with rents running 7 percent higher than a year ago. Manhattan’s office market strengthened somewhat in July, as leasing activity picked up and
vacancy rates edged down. Asking rents for Class A office space rose modestly and continued to run
more than 10 percent ahead of a year earlier. A real estate contact also reports that retailers have

 II-3
started leasing more ground-floor space in apartment buildings that have recently reached full
occupancy.
Other Business Activity Businesses across the District indicate some softening in general conditions since the last
report. A rising number of contacts in both manufacturing and other sectors indicate a recent
pullback in business activity. While some pickup in input price pressures has been noted in recent
weeks and further increases are anticipated in the months ahead, most report steady selling prices. Labor market conditions across the District have been mixed, but somewhat weaker, on
balance, since the last report. While manufacturers report that they continue to add workers, on net,
firms in other sectors indicate that they have cut back on hiring. Moreover, both manufacturers and
non-manufacturing firms recently scaled back their near term hiring plans. Separately, a major New
York City employment agency specializing in office jobs reports that hiring activity was even more
sluggish in July and early August than is usual for the this time of year. A contact in the securities
industry reports that there has been neither any significant increase in layoffs nor much hiring.
Financial Developments Small- to medium-sized banks in the District report a noticeable pickup in overall loan
demand. Particularly widespread increases in demand were reported for both residential and
commercial mortgage loans, while demand for consumer loans was little changed. As was the case
in the last report, demand for commercial & industrial loans decreased. Bankers also indicate steady
demand for refinancing. Virtually all contacts report no change in credit standards across all loan
categories. Respondents indicate continued decreases in spreads of loan rates over costs of funds for
all loan categories—particularly commercial & industrial loans and commercial mortgages.
Respondents also note continued declines in the average deposit rate. Finally, bankers report
declining delinquency rates, particularly on commercial & industrial loans and residential mortgages.

 III - 1 THIRD DISTRICT – PHILADELPHIA Aggregate business activity in the Third District has continued to grow slowly since the
previous Beige Book, although the pace of growth has shifted in a few sectors. Manufacturing
activity declined further, but the rate of decline is tempering. Retail sales have grown somewhat
faster than was the case at the time of the last Beige Book, while auto sales have continued to
increase at a consistent pace. Lending volumes at Third District banks have continued to grow
steadily, and credit quality has continued to improve since the last Beige Book. Demand for new
home construction grew at a slightly faster pace than during the previous Beige Book period, and
brokers report steady growth in sales of existing homes. Commercial real estate contacts report
more widespread growth, but overall demand remains modest. On average, service-sector firms
report more flattening of growth. Price pressures have changed little in most sectors since the last
Beige Book. The overall outlook appears slightly less optimistic relative to the views expressed in the
last Beige Book, as contacts expressed uncertainty about the presidential election and the fiscal
policy decisions to follow. Expectations among manufacturers, while still positive, have fallen
further for overall activity, anticipated hiring, and capital spending plans over the next six
months. Retailers, auto dealers, financial firms, and other service-sector firms remain positive
about the near-term outlook but are increasingly cautious due to their customers’ rising
uncertainty. Real estate firms remain slightly more optimistic with broader participation. Manufacturing. Since the last Beige Book, Third District manufacturers have continued
to report overall declines in shipments and new orders; however, the weak demand was less
widespread. Makers of lumber and wood products; stone, clay, and glass products; and fabricated
metal products have reported gains – some seasonal – since the last Beige Book. Lower activity
was reported by makers of food products, primary metals, industrial machinery, electronic
equipment, and instruments. Contacts report that many customers are delaying purchases due to
uncertainty stemming from the European crisis and domestic fiscal policy. Optimism among Third District manufacturers that business conditions will improve or
stay the same during the next six months remains widespread, though slightly less pervasive than
reported in the last Beige Book. Among the major sectors cited above, contacts at firms in the
food and lumber industries expect some growth, while contacts at fabricated metals and
industrial machinery firms expect some decline. Other major sectors expect no significant
change over the next six months. Firms have slightly lowered their overall expectations of future

 III - 2
capital spending and future hiring since the last Beige Book. Contacts mentioned ongoing
demand for autos, power generation utilities, and Marcellus shale gas as sources of growth and
optimism. Retail. Third District retailers reported a pickup in year-over-year sales for July
compared with June. In early August, a retail outlet operator reported stronger sales but softer
traffic counts. One contact noted that Olympic viewership numbers were very strong and may
have dampened traffic. Another contact relayed the theory that the pervasive negative political
advertising will dampen sales until after the election by displacing product ads and by creating a
negative sales climate. According to some contacts, children’s clothing is typically the last retail
category to experience declining sales in a downturn. Sales of children’s clothing did not
improve in July after a surprising year-over-year decline in June. Despite these various
headwinds, retail contacts remain cautiously optimistic. Auto sales remained moderate in Pennsylvania in July as in June, while New Jersey
dealers tended to report a repeat of their strong June sales in July and early August. Strong
demand and lean inventories are helping to support dealer profits despite weak demand for dealer
services, parts, and repairs. The longer-term outlook for sales remains positive. Contacts point
out that the average age of cars has risen to 11 years, generating strong pent-up demand.
However, dealers remain concerned that rising consumer uncertainty will dampen sales for the
second half of the year. Finance. Contacts from the Third District’s financial sector have reported ongoing
growth since the previous Beige Book. Larger lenders reported loan growth in mortgages,
personal loans, small business loans, and C&I loans. Smaller lenders continue to report increases
primarily as gains in market share in various lending segments from other banks – large and
small. Several small lenders reported increased activity in mortgages and home refinancings.
Most contacts report that the financial health of households, businesses, and financial institutions
continues to improve. Although the overall outlook among lenders was positive, there is an
expectation of tempered growth until after the election, and there are concerns about the impacts
of the fiscal decisions that will follow. Real Estate and Construction. Residential builders reported a modest increase in sales
and a stronger increase in traffic – an improvement since the last Beige Book – as they near the
end of their primary sales season. Large builders are shifting their portfolios toward more
multifamily products and more urban locations. Some small builders are shifting into home

 III - 3
renovation work. Residential brokers reported continued improvement in the sales of existing
homes through July. Inventory levels are also falling. As the traditional sales season draws to a
close, an anticipated surge of listings from the shadow inventory is not expected until spring
2013, assuming existing home sales remain relatively strong. Builders and brokers share a
cautiously optimistic outlook. Overall, nonresidential real estate activity has continued to grow slowly since the last
Beige Book. As Center City Philadelphia attracts more apartments and condos – new
construction and conversions – the remaining supply of office and retail space has tightened
somewhat. Moreover, the increased population is attracting the interest of outside retailers.
Contacts also indicated some increased interest in commercial properties in southern New Jersey.
The overall outlook for nonresidential real estate remains one of slow growth, but it has
solidified and broadened throughout the Third District since the last Beige Book. Services. Third District service-sector firms have reported little to no growth since the
last Beige Book. Several contacts reported that orders and activity have flattened out. Logistics
firms and carriers reported a relatively flat start to the traditional “freight season,” which should
have ramped up in June. One contact reported that reduced crop yields from widespread drought-
stricken areas have generated an excess supply of drivers and trucks, which may have siphoned
normal business from other firms. Staffing firms report no net new orders. One large firm that
had been extending temp contracts has begun letting them expire. Hospitals report some growth,
which may reflect demand for elective procedures that were deferred during the recession.
Additional growth may reflect expansions that garner greater market share. Advertising is a rare
bright spot. Revenue from the Olympics and election-year advertising has surpassed
expectations, on top of a positive underlying trend. Overall, service-sector firms’ positive
outlook for growth over the next six months has been somewhat tempered. Prices and Wages. Price levels changed little overall, although gas prices have risen a
little since the previous Beige Book. Cost factors have risen slightly among manufacturing firms
since the last Beige Book. One manufacturer reported that the drought and heat conditions have
contributed to relatively lower diesel prices and to higher peak energy prices, respectively.
Homebuilders and retailers continue to report tight margins but little additional escalation of the
prices that they face. Contacts from all sectors report little or no wage pressures, other than for
medical benefits. Many contacts report stabilized house prices for lower-cost homes. Now, some
contacts report that the prices of homes in a few affluent areas are beginning to stabilize as well.

 IV - 1 FOURTH DISTRICT – CLEVELAND The economy in the Fourth District grew at a modest pace since our last report. On
balance, manufacturing output moved slightly lower, while residential and nonresidential
construction picked up. Retailers saw a modest rise in sales during July, and motor vehicle
purchases held steady. Natural gas producers increased production, though the demand for coal
has softened. The slowdown in freight transport volume, which began in the second quarter, has
leveled off. And the demand for business credit showed a modest increase. Little net hiring was reported across industry sectors. Staffing-firm representatives said
that the number of job openings has declined during the past six weeks. Open positions were
found primarily in engineering, healthcare, and manufacturing. Wage pressures are contained.
Input prices were generally stable, although concerns exist about the recent rise in agricultural
commodity prices. Manufacturing. Representatives from District factories reported that new orders and
production were flat or down slightly during the past six weeks, with inventories showing a
slight uptick. Relative to year-ago levels, output was mainly higher. The outlook by
manufacturers was mixed. While many contacts are less certain about growth prospects than
they had been a few months earlier, others believe that the abundance of lower-priced energy,
especially natural gas, will boost manufacturing activity in the District. A weakening in shipping
volume by steel producers and service centers was attributed to seasonal factors, rising imports,
and uncertainty. Demand for steel from the energy sector remained solid, while demand from
the transportation sector softened. Most of our steel contacts do not expect market conditions to
change appreciably in the upcoming months. Steel producers reported lowering their
inventories. District auto production showed a substantial decline in July on a month-over-
month basis, due to normal seasonal retooling for model changeovers. Compared to a year ago,
production figures were unchanged for domestic producers, while showing a sizeable increase
for foreign nameplates. The latter is attributable to the abatement of supply chain issues. Many of our contacts reported reduced capacity utilization rates, which they attributed to
weakening demand. Capital spending remains on track; however, some respondents intend to
cut back outlays during the upcoming months. Raw material prices were either stable or
declined. Several manufacturers and steel producers reported reducing their prices to match the
lower material prices. Little change in payrolls was noted, although attracting skilled workers
remains difficult. Wage pressures are contained. Real Estate. Reports from home-builders on single-family housing starts during July
were mixed, although all of our contacts said that activity had improved compared to a year ago.
Sales contracts were in all price-point categories. Homebuilders anticipate only a modest
increase in the construction of single-family homes in the near term; however, opportunities for

 IV - 2
rehabilitating old buildings into apartments and constructing new apartments and special-needs
housing are viewed as strong. Selling prices of new single-family homes were up slightly during
the past six months, and rents increased in the low to mid-single digits. The volatility seen in
building material prices over the past five months is beginning to subside, although there is still
upward pressure on lumber prices. In the eastern third of the District, existing home sales
(number of units, average sales price, and volume) showed a modest to moderate increase year-
to-date relative to the same period in 2011. Similar results were seen in the southwest region of
the District. Nonresidential contractors described current business conditions as improving and better
when compared to a year ago. However, construction activity for small to medium-size builders
is still substantially below pre-recession levels, and profit margins are tight. Project work is
broad based, driven by industrial (manufacturing and distribution), education, and healthcare
clients and multi-family housing. The short-term outlook is fairly positive, but builders are
concerned about the domestic political climate, events in Europe, and potential defense cutbacks.
Building material prices were stable. Even with the pickup in work, residential and
nonresidential builders are reluctant to hire additional workers. Wage pressures are contained.
Some residential and commercial subcontractors have attempted to raise their billing rates but
were largely unsuccessful. Consumer Spending. Retailers reported slightly higher sales figures for July relative to
results seen in June. However, several reports indicated that consumers, including those in
higher-income brackets, are becoming more cautious when buying and are looking for value.
One executive commented that retailers are pushing back orders for the upcoming holiday
season. Retailers anticipate modest growth at best through the end of the third quarter. Vendor
prices were fairly stable, and little change was noted in store prices. There is growing concern
about the rise in agricultural commodity prices and the resulting impact on the cost of food
products. Inventories continued to rise modestly, but they were described as manageable.
Capital spending for the year remains on target, with little change anticipated during the next 12
months. Outlays are mainly for new store construction and technology upgrades. No hiring is
expected, other than at new stores, and wage pressures are contained. Little change was seen in the number of new-vehicle purchases during June and July
when compared with the same time period a year ago. Dealers reported that sales of fuel-
efficient vehicles and SUVs are doing particularly well. New-vehicle inventories are on the light
side, which was attributed in part to model changeovers and tight control by manufacturers. The
outlook by dealers for the remainder of 2012 is mixed, although none of our contacts are
expecting a substantial drop-off. Purchases of used vehicles improved slightly during July
relative to June levels. Capital spending is limited to OEM-mandated remodeling and image

 IV - 3
programs. Hiring for sales and service positions remains at a very slow pace. Dealers have
become more efficient at managing labor needs since prior to the recession resulting in leaner
payrolls. Banking. Bankers reported a modest increase in the demand for business credit, mainly
for refinancings and acquisitions. A few contacts cited rising demand for industrial loans and
financing multifamily housing developments. Little change in consumer credit was observed.
Auto lending remains the bright spot on the consumer side, although a few bankers observed
some softening since our last report. In the residential mortgage market, demand was described
as stable to very strong, with a high percentage of applicants looking to refinance. Several
bankers expressed concern about the low interest rate environment and compliance costs related
to new regulations and their effect on profitability. We heard a few reports about a moderate
loosening of lending guidelines. Delinquencies were steady or improved. Core deposits rose.
Bankers project little change in payrolls for the remainder of this year. Energy. Conventional oil and natural gas production increased since our last report, with
higher production expected to continue in the upcoming months. Some of the increase was
attributed to rising demand from electric utilities. Low wellhead prices for natural gas were cited
as a reason for a decline in drilling conventional wells. Additional drilling rigs are being moved
to Ohio from Pennsylvania to take advantage of the higher-priced wet gas found in the Utica
shale. Coal production this year is expected to fall below 2011 levels due to reduced demand for
thermal coal from domestic utilities and slowing markets for metallurgical coal in Europe and
Asia. Spot prices for steam coal have increased slightly, while prices for export metallurgical
coal declined further. Production equipment and materials prices were flat in most categories,
and capital outlays remain at projected levels. Moderate layoffs were announced by several coal
producers, and conventional oil and gas companies have trimmed back their payrolls. Transportation. Most reports on freight volume indicated that the slowdown which
began mid way through the second quarter has stabilized or started to turn around. The outlook
for the remainder of 2012 remains positive, but growth is not expected to be as strong as had
been forecasted at the beginning of the year. Apart from fluctuating diesel prices, costs
associated with truck maintenance held steady. Some carriers are maintaining their fuel
surcharges and successfully negotiated rate increases when contracts came up for renewal.
Capital spending for 2012 remained on plan. Outlays are allocated for the replacement of aging
units and adding capacity. A few executives reported that rising prices for new trucks combined
with difficulty in obtaining credit is limiting growth opportunities, especially for small carriers.
Driver recruitment remains difficult, resulting in some wage pressure.

 V-1 FIFTH DISTRICT–RICHMOND Overview. Fifth District economic activity improved somewhat in most sectors since our last
report, although manufacturing and employment weakened. Retail sales improved, and non-retail services
providers reported a moderate increase in demand. Tourism contacts generally indicated that summer
business was strong, and they anticipated a busy autumn season. Widespread precipitation in July and
August brought relief from drought conditions, boosting expected crop yields. Residential real estate
activity inched up, while commercial real estate reports were mixed. Lending activity also varied, and
most mortgage lending was for refinancing. Manufacturing activity softened as orders declined. Weaker
District hiring was led by a slowdown in requests for temp workers, although demand for highly skilled
employees persisted. Price changes generally slowed in both the manufacturing and services sectors, with
the exception of a small uptick in retail. Manufacturing. District manufacturing activity continued to decline since our last report. A
manufacturer reported that demand fell sharply for heating equipment components, with domestic and
European customers both reducing their orders. An auto supplier also reported a significant drop in new
orders in the past two months. Another auto parts manufacturer stated that earlier in the year, demand for
his components was growing, but now orders were "treading water." He added that inventories were
rising and he expected to cut production. A food manufacturer reported that power outages from recent
storms resulted in a one-week shutdown, and production did not return to normal for over three weeks.
According to our latest manufacturing survey, growth in raw materials prices slowed over the past month,
while finished goods prices edged downward. Retail. Retailers reported improved sales since our last report. Merchants in several states had a
successful "tax free weekend" in early August. In addition, some department store contacts said they were
able to clear inventories of patio furniture and other seasonal items. Several jewelry retailers also reported
increased sales. Record heat this summer helped to push air conditioner sales, with one big-box store
depleting its entire inventory. An auto industry contact reported that District sales grew at a somewhat
slower pace in recent weeks, although demand remained especially strong for mid-size vehicles. Used
cars remained in short supply, putting upward pressure on prices and improving trade-in values. A
number of apparel and furniture contacts noted that inventories for the upcoming holiday shopping season
will be kept tight, since they expect to be able to easily reorder as needed. Grocery executives expected
price increases in meat and dairy products, due to rising feed costs caused by drought. The pace of retail
price change rose moderately, according to our most recent survey. Services. Accounts from non-retail services firms were generally positive in recent weeks. An
executive at a North Carolina healthcare system reported that demand for services had been steady,
adding that there were a few "sparks" from the arrival of new businesses in an otherwise stagnant local

 V-2
economy. Contacts at healthcare organizations expressed concern about potential Medicare
reimbursement cuts that will come with the change to value-based metrics under the new healthcare
legislation. Ground freight firms reported solid demand and higher shipping rates. A freight service
executive reported that retailers increasingly have moved to an online presence in addition to in-store
sales, contributing to growth in direct shipping to customers through internet sales. Technology services
continued to be in strong demand, particularly for developing websites, mobile services, and cloud
computing. On balance, responses to our recent survey were that price increases at services firms
moderated since our last report. Finance. Banking activity was little changed from the weak, but somewhat mixed conditions that
prevailed in our last report. Most bankers said that very few new loans were made recently and the
number of loans in the pipeline was shrinking. An often-cited exception was mortgage refinancing, as
well as business loans that were captured from other banks by offers of better terms. However, several
mortgage lenders noted some increase in new home loans, especially in the mid-priced range, and one
official reported a modest increase in single-home construction loans. A Maryland banker cited a sharp
increase in small business loans, but several other bankers stated that many small business loan
applications did not meet lending standards. A lending officer in northern Virginia reported a slowdown
in industrial loans due to rising economic uncertainty. A banker in West Virginia noted strength in
industrial loans going into the state’s energy sector, although he expected lending to decline after the
completion of current mining projects. While margins continued to be squeezed, most bankers described
loan quality as stable following several quarters of steady improvement. Real Estate. Residential real estate activity continued to improve since our last report. A Realtor
in the Richmond area said that sales were up double digits over last year and pending sales had increased
sharply from a year ago. Moreover, his company had seen a marked increase in prices. An agent in the
D.C. area also reported strong sales "inside the Beltway.” A Realtor in the Fredericksburg area indicated
that sales had increased and traffic was very active for this time of year, noting that the average sales price
had risen by about $40,000 over last year. She mentioned that her firm had seen virtually no listings of
foreclosed properties in July, and she saw fewer short sales. A West Virginia developer, who specializes
in second homes in the mountains, stated that there had been an increase in inquiries and contracts for
homes after four years without any sales. Similarly, a contractor reported a solid increase in home sales in
the Charleston, South Carolina area, with the average price of new homes sold rising slightly as well. Commercial real estate activity remained mixed over the last few weeks. A few Realtors pointed
to companies that were downsizing their space requirements as a cause for limited new construction and
high vacancy rates. An agent in the D.C. area reported a recent drop in office leasing activity by as much
as half from year-ago levels. However, several Realtors noted that, due to the lack of office construction,
landlords had been offering fewer incentives to capture or retain tenants at existing properties. Retail

 V-3
leasing activity was mostly described as weak, especially among small, locally owned businesses. A
contact in northern Virginia noted weakness in many segments of the market, but notable exceptions
included car dealerships, gas stations and doctors’ offices. A North Carolina real estate agent reported that
purchasing activity had picked up markedly among his investment clients, which he attributed to national
firms being increasingly attracted to the region. A few pockets of improvement in both leasing and
construction activity were noted in eastern South Carolina, which has benefited from an expansion in the
aerospace industry, and in northern West Virginia, where gains were driven by natural gas drilling. Labor Markets. Labor market activity weakened since our last report. Contacts at several
employment agencies described demand for workers as softening in the past six weeks. In Richmond,
several small retailers said that they did not hire summer workers and they were not planning additional
hiring for the year-end holiday selling season. One agent noted that demand was slightly below normal
for this time of year, but he hoped to see a rebound similar to the one that occurred late last summer.
However, a few pockets of strength persisted. For example, most employment agencies continued to
report strong demand for highly skilled IT employees, as jobs created by new technologies drove the
market for those workers. Additionally, several contacts noted an increase in demand for truck drivers.
According to our recent surveys, wages in both the manufacturing and service sectors were growing at a
slightly slower pace than a month ago. Tourism. District resorts reported a very good summer season, with rentals and hotel bookings
up from a year ago. Local restaurants and shops have been busy, and a contact on the Outer Banks of
North Carolina said that new businesses were opening to serve vacationers. Cruise ships leaving the Port
of Baltimore have been fully booked, according to a contact there. In Washington, D.C., a contact
observed more tour buses in recent weeks and bigger weekend crowds on the National Mall. However,
according to a couple of Baltimore hotel managers, bookings for conferences and leisure stays were
mixed. Additionally, a hotel contact in the Virginia Beach area said that bookings were making "no great
strides," primarily as a result of government travel cuts. Despite the lack of momentum in government
travel, most hoteliers said that they were able to raise rates slightly. Looking ahead to late autumn,
executives were optimistic about bookings, as localities planned historical commemorations, music
programs, food festivals, marathons, and other social events. In South Carolina, a hotel manager
anticipated that a new carrier at a nearby airport would provide solid bookings in the months ahead. Agriculture. Widespread precipitation since our last report helped revitalize crops and
pastureland in many areas of the District. Rain in early August aided late summer peaches in Maryland
and West Virginia, and soybeans were responding to improved weather conditions in Virginia. Cotton
and peanut growers in the District are also having a great year. In South Carolina, the cantaloupe and
watermelon harvest was virtually complete by early August. Results of our recent agricultural credit
survey indicated that farmland values were above both the previous quarter and year-ago levels.

 VI-1 SIXTH DISTRICT – ATLANTA Summary. Reports from Sixth District business contacts indicated that economic
activity expanded at a modest pace in July through mid-August. The majority of contacts
described their short-term outlook for future business activity as restrained. Most retailers indicated that sales growth had slowed with the exception of autos, which
remained quite positive. Tourism contacts continued to report strong activity in all segments
except cruise lines. Residential brokers and builders noted improvement in home sales and
construction. New and existing home sales prices were reported to be modestly higher than year-
ago levels. Commercial builders continued to note improvement, driven by the multifamily
sector. Manufacturers reported a pullback in new orders and production levels. According to
banking contacts, loan demand remained low but some improvements were registered in home
mortgages, and auto lending was brisk. Hiring activity remained muted across the District. The
trend of using temporary workers to fill labor needs continued to be cited by many firms. Some
contacts said that they had experienced lower overall input prices, but rising food prices was a
concern. Wage pressures remained in check. Consumer Spending and Tourism. Most contacts in the retail sector reported generally
slower sales. Contacts in the restaurant industry in particular were less positive in July. Discount
retail operations performed somewhat better than traditional department stores, while luxury
goods merchants remained largely positive, although their reports were more mixed than earlier
in the year. Sales expectations for most retailers remained conservative. Auto sales continued to
grow at a solid pace and dealers anticipated continued strong results. Hospitality contacts reported strong hotel occupancy and room rates for July through
mid-August. Convention bookings showed continued strength. Cruise line results remained
below expectations. However, contacts in that sector anticipate stronger business in 2013.
Florida contacts noted a drop off in tourism activity from Europe, but that was being offset by
the increase in visitors from South and Central America. Real Estate and Construction. District residential brokers reported that sales were up
slightly compared with year-ago levels. Brokers continued to note declining inventories, which
has put some upward pressure on home prices in many markets. Contacts indicated that buying
interest continued to improve from earlier in the year. The outlook for home sales over the next
several months remained positive, with the majority of contacts anticipating modest gains. Reports from District homebuilders remained positive as well. Most said that recent
activity had met or exceeded their expectations. New home sales were up notably from year-

 VI-2
earlier levels and construction exceeded last year’s levels. Most builders reported that new home
inventories declined further. Several builders also noted that finished lots were scarce and
development of new lots would not be financially feasible until home prices increased
significantly. Most builders indicated that new home prices were flat to slightly up compared
with a year earlier. The strongest gains were again reported by Florida builders. Homebuilders
witnessed strong buyer traffic and the outlook for construction activity and new home sales
remained positive. Apartment sector gains continued to drive improvements in the District’s commercial real
estate markets. Occupancy levels were described as high and rental rates rose further. Contacts
indicated that the region’s office market continued to make small improvements, while the
industrial and retail sectors cited some weakening in demand from earlier in the year.
Commercial contractors indicated that the pace of construction improved somewhat from earlier
in the year, while backlogs have also risen in many areas. Most anticipated that construction
activity will likely mirror last year’s levels through the end of the year. Some contacts suggested
that 2012 would be the bottom of the market, with improvements expected next year. Manufacturing and Transportation. Manufacturing contacts noted a contraction in
new orders and production levels since the last report. Roughly one quarter of manufacturing
contacts still expect production to improve from current levels over the next three-to-six months,
but an equal number anticipate additional declines. Half see output levels near current readings.
Despite falling non-labor input costs, a slump in new orders is keeping margins thin.
Construction-related manufacturing firms cited a bit more optimism since the last report,
crediting recent improvements in several housing market indicators. Trucking contacts indicated that freight demand and capacity remained closely in
balance. Regulatory issues, increasing costs, and a tight driver market continue to put pressures
on bottom lines. District air cargo contacts cited continued positive growth, however at a slightly
slower pace than earlier in the year. Sharp volume declines with Asia and Europe have been
offset by increases in other regions. Rail contacts reported continued increases in intermodal
shipments, which have helped to moderate declines in car loads of coal and agricultural products.
Shipments of construction-related materials continued to be mixed; lumber remained positive,
while aggregates and chemicals declined. Banking and Finance. Banking contacts continued to note margin and profit pressures.
Competition among banks and credit unions for high-quality loans remained intense, further
driving down margins. A few bankers cited positive loan growth, but overall loan demand

 VI-3
remained low. Some contacts noted pockets of improvement in residential real estate lending,
driven mostly by refinancing. Contacts also reported robust auto lending. Community banks
looked to fee-related services in an effort to become less dependent on the pricing spread
between loans and deposits. Some contacts cited increased consumer credit card use. Employment and Prices. Regional employment growth remained very tepid. Few firms
reported their intention to add to current staffing levels, but there were only scattered reports of
firms planning layoffs. Companies that rely on contracts with the Department of Defense were
not yet cutting back on staff or otherwise changing their business plans because the timing and
focus of defense spending cutbacks is highly uncertain. Many firms continued to note increased
hiring of temporary or contract workers. Several companies have also reported large capital
investments which reduced the need for labor. Meanwhile, contacts also continued to note
difficulty filling highly skilled positions. Several firms continued to report that weak demand and
uncertainty surrounding fiscal and regulatory policy weighed on decision-making processes. Businesses reported some relief on input prices and little change in wage plans, although
some employers noted that they were increasing starting pay for workers with specialty skills.
The potential impact of higher food prices was noted by many companies across several sectors.
Paired with the recent rise in gasoline prices, higher food costs will have a negative impact on
lower and middle-income constituents according to community development contacts. Firms
responding to our Business Inflation Expectations survey reported steady unit cost expectations
in July. On average, they expect unit costs to rise 1.7 percent over the next 12 months. While
similar to June's reading, the number was down slightly from 1.8 percent in May. Natural Resources and Agriculture. Contacts reported a renewed increase in
production at Gulf Coast refineries because of recent closures along the East Coast. An increase
in demand for crude oil and oil products, along with the Gulf Coast seeing particularly high
demand for diesel fuels and other distillates, has helped to support refined product prices. Recent rains improved conditions in many parts of the District. Compared with the same
time last year, prices paid to farmers for soybeans, corn, oranges, beef, hogs, and broilers were
up while cotton was down. Although beef prices have increased over the last year, contacts
reported that both the drought and high feed prices have resulted in lower prices paid to farmers
on a month-over-month basis.

 VII-1 SEVENTH DISTRICT—CHICAGO Summary. Economic activity in the Seventh District expanded at a moderate pace in July
and early August, with the pace of growth once again slowing from the prior reporting period.
Contacts reported heightened concern regarding the risks to the economic outlook, notably the U.S.
fiscal situation and weaker growth in Europe and Asia. Business spending increased at a slower
pace, while consumer spending growth picked up some. Growth in manufacturing production
moderated further, while construction activity continued to slowly increase. Credit conditions were
again slightly improved. Smaller anticipated corn and soybean harvests due to the ongoing drought
pushed crop prices higher and raised the cost of feeding livestock, with some pass-through to
wholesale prices already taking place. Consumer spending. The pace of growth in consumer spending increased slightly in July
and early August due in large part to heavy discounting by retailers to clear inventory space for
back-to-school items. Store traffic was similar to last year at this time; however, retail contacts
noted that the recent increases in gas prices were leading to less discretionary spending. Sales of
summer clothing and other seasonal items remained strong. Sales of big-ticket items such as
furniture again were weak, although sales of electronics improved some. Auto sales were little
changed from the prior reporting period and dealers reported that inventories were beginning to
creep up. Business spending. Growth in business spending slowed from the prior reporting period.
Inventories were generally reported to be at comfortable levels. However, retailers remained
cautious in their back-to-school and holiday season ordering and manufacturers also expressed a
desire to tightly manage their inventories. Capital expenditures on software and equipment were
proceeding as planned, but contacts cited a greater degree of restraint in new spending projects.
Labor market conditions were little changed on balance. Hiring remained selective in most
industries, with demand comparatively stronger for skilled manufacturing and construction workers,
information technology specialists, and engineers. Several manufacturers reported transitioning
temporary employees into permanent positions, and a staffing firm reported an increase in demand
from the manufacturing sector. Construction/real estate. Construction activity continued to increase at a slow but steady
pace in July and early August. Multi-family construction remained an area of strength, and
residential single-family construction increased slightly. Homebuilders noted that credit was still

 VII-2
tight for residential projects, with lenders continuing to require large equity commitments before
extending financing. Demand for nonresidential construction also continued to gradually increase.
Industrial building and highway projects rose further. Elevated office and retail vacancy rates
remained a drag on new commercial construction, but contacts indicated that demand for office
space was slowly improving. That said, a commercial real estate broker noted that companies lack
the confidence to make long-term real estate commitments, as many continue to negotiate for
contracts with opt-out provisions after two to three years into their lease agreements. Manufacturing. Growth in manufacturing production slowed further over the course of
July and early August, with contacts expecting this slower rate of growth to persist throughout the
second half of the year. In the steel industry, capacity utilization fluctuated some during the
reporting period, but was roughly unchanged on balance. Metals manufacturers noted continued
volatility in their customers’ orders, as many were closely monitoring their inventory levels. The
auto industry continued to be a source of strength for manufacturing. Demand for heavy equipment
also remained solid, with rental fleets continuing to expand. Manufacturers of household goods and
building materials reported that activity had picked up some, although it remained at low levels.
The coal mining industry, however, was a notable exception, as the low price of natural gas has
resulted in the substitution of natural gas for coal in electricity production. Exporters noted weaker
demand from Europe and Asia, but continued strength from other parts of the world like Mexico. Banking/finance. Credit conditions gradually improved over the reporting period. Credit
spreads and volatility moved lower and increased competition led to downward pricing pressure on
small business loans. Business loan demand continued to be mostly from small and middle market
firms and for the purpose of refinancing existing debt as opposed to financing capital expenditures.
Banking contacts reported that many of their customers are waiting to assess the impact of the
upcoming election on tax and healthcare policies. Consumer loan demand was steady. Mortgage
refinancing continued to increase and contacts noted the greater availability of sub-prime loans for
used autos. With overall loan growth flattening out in recent months, a banking industry contact
noted that some banks are investing in municipal bonds as a way to increase their earnings. Prices/costs. Cost pressures were mixed in July and early August. Prices fell for a number
of commodities but rose for materials like steel and lumber. Gasoline prices moved higher and
shipping costs were also noted to have risen. Retailers reported that the spike in agricultural
commodity prices resulting from the drought, particularly its impact on higher feed costs, was

 VII-3
already starting to be passed through to wholesale prices. Wage pressures continued to be moderate,
although several contacts cited upward pressure on healthcare costs. Agriculture. The drought has substantially reduced expected yields for corn and soybeans,
although the impact varied considerably across the District. Scattered rains near the end of the
reporting period helped revive soybeans to some degree; however, with the exception of some late-
plantings, the precipitation was too late to improve yields for most of the corn crop. Crop insurance
and higher prices will partially offset lost revenue. However, some farmers face the prospect of
having to buy corn at market prices after selling ahead more than they will likely harvest. Livestock
pastures are in poor shape as well, and fields with low corn yields were being chopped for silage to
feed livestock. With feed costs high, livestock operations cannot cover their costs of production, and
operators have reduced their herds accordingly. Hog and cattle prices were down from the prior
reporting period, while dairy prices were up as milk production dipped.

 VIII-1 Eighth District - St. Louis
Summary The economy of the Eighth District has continued to expand at a modest pace since our previous
survey. Retail and auto sales in July and early August increased over year-earlier levels. Residential real
estate market conditions have continued to improve moderately. However, commercial and industrial real
estate conditions have been mixed. Recent reports of planned activity from services firms have been
positive. In contrast, reports from manufacturing contacts have been mixed. Reports of lending activity at
a sample of large District banks during the second quarter of 2012 were somewhat mixed.
Consumer Spending Contacts reported that retail sales in July and early August were up slightly, on average, over
year-earlier levels. About 42 percent of the retailers reported increases in sales, while 33 percent saw
decreases and 25 percent saw no changes. Half of the retailers noted that sales levels met their
expectations and half noted that sales were below expectations. About 13 percent of the retailers noted
that their inventories were too high, while 8 percent reported that their inventories were too low. The sales
outlook through the fall was generally optimistic: 70 percent of the retailers expect sales to increase over
2011 levels, 17 percent expect sales to decrease, and 13 percent expect sales to be similar to last year’s
sales. Car dealers in the District reported that sales in July and early August were up, on average,
compared with last year's sales. About 67 percent of the car dealers surveyed saw increases in sales, while
8 percent saw decreases and 25 percent saw no changes. A third of the car dealers surveyed noted that
new car sales had increased relative to used car sales, while 13 percent reported the opposite. Roughly 29
percent of contacts reported an increase in sales of low-end vehicles relative to high-end vehicles, while
about 13 percent reported the opposite. Twenty-five percent of the car dealers surveyed reported that their
inventories were too low, while 17 percent reported that their inventories were too high. The sales outlook
for September and October was generally optimistic: 67 percent of the car dealers expect sales to increase

 VIII-2
over 2011 levels, 16 percent expect sales to decrease, and 17 percent expect sales to be similar to last
year's sales.
Manufacturing and Other Business Activity Reports of plans for manufacturing activity have been mixed since our previous report. Several
manufacturers reported plans to expand operations and hire new workers, while fewer manufacturers
reported plans to lay off workers. However, the reported plans for layoffs usually involved a greater
number of workers relative to the reported hiring plans. Firms in automobile, medical technology
products, carbon and graphite products, air purification equipment, electrical equipment, automobile
parts, metal can, nanotechnology, lifting equipment, and industrial machinery manufacturing reported
plans to expand operations and hire new workers. In contrast, firms in air transportation, chemical,
appliance, wind turbine, and aluminum manufacturing reported plans to lay off workers and close plants. Reports of planned activity in the District’s service sector have been positive since our previous
report. Firms in financial, medical, information technology, business support, transportation, home
healthcare, and environmental consulting services reported plans to open new facilities, expand
operations, and hire new employees. In contrast, firms in information and education services reported
plans to reduce operations and decrease employment.
Real Estate and Construction Home sales increased throughout most of the Eighth District on a year-over-year basis. Compared
with the same period in 2011, June 2012 year-to-date home sales were up 13 percent in Louisville, 7
percent in Little Rock, 10 percent in Memphis, and 16 percent in St. Louis. Residential construction
increased in the majority of the District. June 2012 year-to-date single-family housing permits increased
in the majority of the District metro areas compared with the same period in 2011. Permits increased 42
percent in Louisville, 14 percent in Little Rock, 46 percent in Memphis, and 23 percent in St. Louis. Commercial and industrial real estate conditions were mixed throughout most of the District. A
contact in northeast Arkansas reported that except for Jonesboro and Paragould, overall commercial real
estate activity remains weak in the region. A contact in Louisville noted that compared with the first five

 VIII-3
months of 2012, the growth of office leasing activity has slowed. A contact in St. Louis reported moderate
improvement in office real estate activity and strong demand in the industrial real estate market.
Commercial and industrial construction activity improved throughout most of the District. Contacts
reported several commercial construction projects in Jonesboro, Arkansas, and in Bowling Green,
Kentucky, while contacts in Louisville noted new speculative construction plans in nearby Jeffersonville,
Indiana.
Banking and Finance A survey of senior loan officers at a sample of large District banks indicated moderate changes in
overall lending activity in the second quarter of 2012 compared with the first quarter of 2012. During this
period, credit standards for commercial and industrial loans remained largely unchanged, while demand
for such loans increased moderately. Credit standards for commercial real estate loans remained generally
unchanged, while demand ranged from moderately weaker to moderately stronger. Credit standards for
prime residential mortgage loans also remained generally unchanged, while demand ranged from
unchanged to moderately stronger. Credit standards for consumer loans ranged from basically unchanged
to somewhat eased, while demand was moderately stronger, especially for auto loans.
Agriculture and Natural Resources Severe drought conditions have caused downgrades to forecasted crop production. Annual 2012
production of cotton, soybean, and corn in the District states is expected to fall from 2011 levels by 12
percent, 18 percent, and 24 percent, respectively. In contrast, annual production of rice and sorghum in
the District states is expected to increase by at least 12 percent. The fraction of all crops rated in fair or
better condition has fallen in all District states since the previous report. Similarly, the fraction of pasture
rated in fair or better condition declined in all District states. The District states’ year-to-date coal
production for the end of July was 3.4 percent higher compared with the same period last year.
Meanwhile, the District states’ coal production for July 2012 was approximately on par with July 2011.

 IX-1 NINTH DISTRICT--MINNEAPOLIS
The Ninth District economy grew at a modest pace since the last report. Increased activity
was noted in consumer spending, tourism, professional services, construction and real
estate, while activity slowed slightly in the manufacturing and energy sectors. Agriculture
was mixed, while mining was steady at high levels. Overall labor market conditions were
steady since the last report, and wage increases were modest. Prices were relatively stable.
Consumer Spending and Tourism
Consumer spending grew since the last report. Same-store sales at a Minnesota-based
retailer increased 3 percent in July compared with a year ago; a company representative
noted that back-to-school shopping activity has been positive. July same-store sales at a
Montana mall increased slightly compared with a year ago. Recent same-store sales at a
Minnesota-based restaurant chain were up about 7 percent compared with a year ago.
New car and light truck registrations in Minnesota were more than 10 percent higher
recently compared with last year. However, a higher-end retailer announced plans to
close a Minnesota store next year. Summer tourism activity increased from last year. Fishing license sales and visits
to campgrounds and outdoor state parks and recreation areas in South Dakota were on a
record pace. A resort in northwestern Wisconsin reported solid bookings. Tourism
activity in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan was up 10 percent to 20 percent. Visits to
Glacier National Park and Yellowstone National Park increased 20 percent and 10
percent, respectively. Activity at several other Montana tourism attractions was also
tracking ahead of last year. Meanwhile, strong attendance levels were reported at the
North Dakota State Fair in late July.
Construction and Real Estate
Commercial construction activity increased since the last report. The value of commercial
building permits in the Billings, Mont., area in July more than doubled from the same
period last year. Commercial permits in the Sioux Falls, S.D., area more than doubled in
value in July from a year earlier. New industrial and warehouse building projects were in
progress in the Minneapolis area. Residential construction increased from a year ago. The
value of residential building permits in the Sioux Falls area in July was up 39 percent
from the same period last year. Residential permits increased in value and number in the
Minneapolis-St. Paul area in July; both single-family and multifamily permits increased.
Several counties in Montana reported large increases in home building in 2012 compared

 IX-2
with 2011, and the value of residential permits issued in July more than doubled in
Billings. Commercial real estate markets continued to expand. Vacancy rates for
Minneapolis office and industrial properties declined over the past year and were
expected to decline further, according to a real estate consulting firm. Several large
transactions were announced since the last report. Residential real estate market activity
was brisk. Home sales in early August were up 20 percent from the same period a year
ago in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area; the inventory of homes for sale was down 30
percent. In the Sioux Falls area, July home sales were up 29 percent, inventory was down
14 percent and the median sales price rose 6 percent relative to a year earlier.
Services
Activity at professional business services firms grew somewhat since the last report.
According to a mid-August Minneapolis Fed ad hoc survey, District professional business
services firms noted gains in revenue and profits over the past three months and expect this
to continue over the next three months.
Manufacturing
Manufacturing activity slowed. Surprisingly, a July survey of purchasing managers by
Creighton University (Omaha, Neb.) showed a decrease in manufacturing activity in
Minnesota and South Dakota for the first time in three years; activity in North Dakota
increased, but at a slower pace than in recent months. However, most respondents to a
Minneapolis Fed ad hoc survey of manufacturers conducted in mid-August had a mildly
optimistic outlook for the near term. Several contacts indicated that orders dropped in
early July, but have returned to previous levels. A long-planned beef-packing plant in
South Dakota was put on hold following reports that it would open soon. A Minnesota
manufacturer that makes equipment for the scrap metal industry will reduce production
due to a stagnant scrap metal market and a glut of new steel.
Energy and Mining
The energy sector moderated somewhat. Oil and gas exploration in North Dakota
decreased in early August, while it increased slightly in Montana; production remained at
record levels. Producers of wind-energy components reported slow demand attributed to
uncertainty over the renewal of a tax credit. A Minnesota ethanol plant was idled because
of high corn input costs. A coal-fired power plant in South Dakota was also shut down.
Mining activity remained steady at high levels. Minnesota iron ore mines and taconite

 IX-3
producers continued to operate at high capacity, although some operations were idled for
standard annual maintenance. Sand mines in western Wisconsin remained very busy due
to strong demand from oil and gas producers.
Agriculture
The agriculture sector was mixed. Preliminary results from the Minneapolis Fed’s
second-quarter (July) survey of agricultural credit conditions showed that nearly 90
percent of lenders said farm incomes increased or stayed the same in the past three
months, with similar results for household and capital spending. While severe drought hit
the Midwest, much of the District has been spared relative to other areas. Most of the
corn, soybean and spring wheat crops in Minnesota and North Dakota were in good or
excellent condition. South Dakota and Wisconsin fared somewhat worse. District cattle
producers have been selling more animals because of high feed costs. Margins also
tightened for dairy producers. Prices received by farmers in July increased from a year
earlier for corn, wheat, soybeans, hay, dry beans, poultry, eggs, cattle and hogs; prices
decreased for potatoes and dairy products.
Employment, Wages and Prices
Overall labor market conditions were steady since the last report, but tightening
continued for some regions and occupations. Bank directors noted that many District
companies have not adjusted their hiring plans for the second half of 2012. Manufacturers
throughout the District continued to have a number of welding positions open. A business
process outsourcing firm recently announced plans to locate up to 400 jobs in Minnesota.
A Minnesota manufacturer hired 250 workers over the past seven months. In contrast, a
Minnesota food retailer plans to lay off 50 workers, and two North Dakota manufacturers
are holding back on hiring plans. Wage increases were modest, with some exceptions. Wage rates in the oil-drilling
area of western North Dakota and eastern Montana continued to climb. A Minnesota
manufacturer noted that workers with higher skills were getting some increases in wages,
while wages for lower-skilled workers were flat. Prices were relatively stable. Metals prices were down somewhat since the last
report. However, mid-August Minnesota gasoline prices were up about 30 cents per
gallon from early July.

 X-1 TENTH DISTRICT - KANSAS CITY The Tenth District economy continued to expand at a moderate pace in July and early
August. Retailers and auto dealers reported higher sales and expected increased activity in the
months ahead. Manufacturing activity expanded slightly, with additional gains expected over the
next six months. Transportation activity grew moderately, while sales in the high-tech services
sector declined slightly. Residential and commercial real estate markets continued to improve
with increased sales, construction, and prices. Banking contacts reported slightly higher loan
demand and improved loan quality. Agricultural conditions deteriorated under extreme drought
conditions leading to higher crop prices and strained profit margins for livestock producers. The
energy sector held steady as growth in crude oil drilling continued to offset the decrease in
drilling for natural gas. Most sectors reported higher input prices, but final goods prices and
wage pressures remained stable. Consumer Spending. Consumer spending continued to increase in July and early August
and was expected to rise further over the next three months. Retailers reported higher sales,
though gains were a bit less than expected. Home furnishings, clothing and back-to-school items
sold well, while sales of high-end jewelry were weaker. Auto sales increased sharply as more
incentives were offered and access to credit improved slightly. Demand for small and mid-sized
crossovers, SUVs and cars was strong, while demand for larger SUVs and minivans remained
weak. Most auto dealers expected sales to strengthen further in the months ahead. Restaurant
sales increased, and several contacts expected higher menu prices in coming months in response
to rising food costs. After strong gains in June, hotel occupancy fell slightly in July and early
August, but average room rates continued to rise. In terms of tourism, the number of visitors at
local attractions grew slightly, and modest gains were expected in the months ahead. Manufacturing and Other Business Activity. Transportation activity continued to grow
moderately, manufacturing activity expanded slightly, and sales at high-tech services firms
declined slightly. Transportation activity continued to rise, with an increase in sales and backlog
activity. Input prices and prices charged for transportation services increased with higher fuel
costs. Capital spending plans at transportation firms remained largely unchanged, with firms
continuing to expect a modest increase in capital spending in coming months. Manufacturing

 X-2
production and hiring rose modestly, though the volume of new orders, volume of shipments,
and backlogs declined since the last survey. Manufacturers expected activity to expand in
coming months. Sales at high-tech services firms decreased slightly, and capital spending grew
modestly. High-tech contacts expected improved sales in the months ahead and a strong rise in
capital spending. Real Estate and Construction. Residential and commercial real estate activity
continued to improve in July and early August, and construction activity strengthened.
Residential home sales and prices rose, and home inventories fell. Contacts reported multiple
offers on homes and expected continued housing market improvements in coming months.
Homes under $300,000 sold particularly well, while homes priced over $500,000 and condos
were slow to sell in some markets. Several contacts reported that a large inventory of homes in
foreclosure has been held back and could put downward pressure on prices when the homes
come onto the market. Builders reported an increase in housing starts and a rise in new home
prices as well as improvement in the traffic of potential buyers. Land prices and the cost of
building materials rose during the survey period as demand improved. Commercial real estate
conditions also improved. Construction and sales of commercial real estate properties rose, real
estate prices and rents increased, and vacancy rates continued to fall. Several commercial real
estate contacts expected uncertainty surrounding the presidential election to slow activity until
late in the year. Developers reported that access to credit remained unchanged. Banking. In the recent survey period, bankers generally reported slightly stronger loan
demand, improving loan quality, and little change in deposits. Overall loan demand improved
slightly as most respondents reported stable loan demand for commercial and industrial loans,
commercial real estate loans, and consumer installment loans, while demand for residential real
estate loans improved. Credit standards remained largely unchanged in all major loan categories,
and the majority of respondents reported stable deposits. The majority of bankers reported
improved loan quality compared to a year ago, and nearly all banks expected loan quality over
the next six months to remain steady or improve. Agriculture. Agricultural conditions deteriorated as crops withered under extreme
drought. The majority of the corn and soybean crops were rated in fair or poor condition, cutting
production estimates and sending crop prices to record highs. Drought strained profit margins for

 X-3
livestock producers as feed costs rose and further herd liquidations dampened cattle prices.
Escalating production costs were expected to boost farm loan demand in the coming months.
Agricultural bankers indicated ample funds were available for farm loans at historically low
interest rates. Loan repayment rates were expected to hold near year-ago levels due in large part
to crop insurance and higher land lease revenues for mineral rights. While still well above year-
ago levels, farmland values rose less rapidly and were expected to hold steady during the rest of
the growing season. Energy. District energy activity remained fairly stable at high levels in July and early
August. Drilling activity rose as growth in the number of active crude oil rigs offset declines in
natural gas drilling. Most contacts expected drilling activity to slow in coming months due to
local and national regulatory obstacles and low natural gas prices. Stable demand growth and
ample supply of crude oil were expected to limit further increases in crude oil prices in coming
months. Contacts expected the slowdown in natural gas drilling to put upward pressure on
natural gas prices over the next three months. Shortages were reported for equipment and labor,
particularly for oil and natural gas operators and drilling engineers. Several contacts also
reported that the drought has affected drilling operations by limiting water availability needed for
hydraulic fracturing. Wages and Prices. Finished goods prices remained stable despite an increase in raw
material prices, and wage pressures remained low. Manufacturers reported higher raw material
prices, and finished goods prices remained flat. However, both raw material prices and finished
goods prices were expected to increase over the next six months in the manufacturing sector,
especially for food manufacturers. Retail prices increased slightly, and additional price increases
were expected to remain modest. Restaurant menu prices remained flat, but many contacts
expected to raise prices in the months ahead in response to higher food costs. Builders and
construction supply firms also reported higher prices, especially for roofing materials, lumber
and concrete. Wage pressures remained subdued, and only a few contacts expected to raise
wages more than normal to attract or retain workers. However, many firms continued to report
some difficulty filling skilled positions including drivers, technicians, engineers, computer
programmers, and sales representatives.

 XI-1 ELEVENTH DISTRICT—DALLAS The Eleventh District economy grew at a moderate pace over the past six weeks. Manufacturing
activity continued to expand, demand for business services remained solid, and transportation services
activity increased. Respondents said retail sales edged up, while automobile sales held steady. The
housing and commercial real estate markets remained healthy. Financial firms noted softening loan
demand. Energy activity remained robust, and agricultural conditions improved slightly. Employment
levels were steady to slightly higher. Wage and price pressures were modest. Most contacts noted that
European debt issues and the upcoming national elections added uncertainty to their outlooks. Prices Most contacts said prices held steady, although some construction-related and vehicle
manufacturers noted slight increases, and accounting and staffing firms reported a modest rise in billing
rates. Paper product manufacturers and shipping firms noted plans to implement price increases in the
near term. Overall, input costs were flat to up during the reporting period. Prices for scrap metal, steel and
grains rose. Contacts reported that the rising cost of labor and land prices have increased builders’ costs,
and some were raising prices on new homes. The price of WTI rose from $85 in early July to $94 in mid-August. Natural gas prices remained
depressed. The price of diesel and gasoline climbed about 30 cents, and prices of petrochemical products
were flat to up over the reporting period. Labor Market Employment levels edged up or held steady at most responding firms. Staffing
firms reported demand softened slightly from high levels and noted rising demand for mortgage refinance
specialists, sales professionals and plastic product manufacturing workers. Reports of slight employment
increases came from some automobile dealers, construction-related products manufacturers,
transportation equipment producers and transportation service firms. A few respondents noted difficulty
filling vacant positions because of employment opportunities available in the energy sector, and contacts
reported delays in housing starts because of labor shortages. Wage pressures remained minimal, although
upward pressure was reported for construction workers, truck drivers and accountants. Manufacturing Overall demand for construction-related products held steady or edged up since
the last report, but outlooks were cautious. A cement producer noted that increased residential
construction activity, particularly in South Texas, had improved demand. Fabricated metals producers
noted an uptick in orders, largely stemming from both public infrastructure projects and private
construction activity such as high rise residential buildings and warehouse facilities. Demand for primary
metals was steady over the past six weeks, and expectations were for business to remain flat through year-
end.

 XI-2 High-tech manufacturers said orders were flat to slightly up over the reporting period. Contacts
reported that conditions in the semiconductor industry were better in the U.S. than in other parts of the
world. This is largely because U.S. production centers on logic devices that are experiencing stronger
demand than memory devices, which are primarily produced outside of the U.S. Most respondents noted
that increased uncertainty will likely be a drag on demand through year-end. Demand for paper products remained steady, although contacts were uncertain about what will
happen over the next few months, particularly with regard to potential tax changes after the November
election. Food producers said demand experienced a seasonal increase over the past month, but sales were
lower than a year ago. Overall, transportation equipment manufacturers said demand was flat to up over
the past six weeks. Demand for aviation equipment held steady at low levels. Outlooks were less
optimistic compared with the last report partly due to continued weakness in demand for parts and repair
of existing aircraft. A producer of recreational vehicles noted a pickup in sales, and an emergency vehicle
manufacturer reported continued strong demand. Petrochemicals producers reported steady demand. Demand for PVC, tied to residential
construction, improved domestically, and exports continued to be a major source of sales. Exports of
caustic soda remained strong as U.S. prices are very competitive due to lower electricity costs. Chlorine
demand edged up, while demand for propylene weakened. Gulf Coast refiners said operating rates
remained high at 90 percent. Robust export demand for gasoline and distillates kept inventories low, and
refiners’ margins remained healthy. Retail Sales Retail sales grew slightly over the reporting period and were up from a year ago.
Particular strength was seen in sales of accessories, cosmetics and women’s and children’s apparel. Sales
growth in the Eleventh District remained stronger than the nation, on average, according to two large
retailers. Retailers expect a seasonal pickup in demand in the fourth quarter, although sales will likely be
down from last year. Automobile sales were mostly flat since the last report, but were up from year ago levels.
Inventories were lighter than desired. Contacts said political uncertainty was hampering consumer
confidence, and outlooks were cautious. Services Staffing firms said demand slowed slightly over the past six weeks. Still, activity
remained at high levels and business was stronger compared with last year. Outlooks remained positive,
yet there was concern among contacts about uncertainty stemming from the upcoming presidential
election. Accounting firms noted continued seasonal weakness in overall demand but said activity related
to the energy industry remained a bright spot, and outlooks for energy-focused areas were particularly
upbeat. Legal firms reported a continued pickup in demand, with sustained strength in intellectual
property litigation, energy and real estate-related services.

 XI-3 Reports from transportation service firms suggested a slight increase in activity. Trucking firms
said cargo volumes increased over the reporting period, partly due to more oil and gas-related business.
Railroads said volumes increased since the last report. Contacts noted shipments of two of the largest
categories for rail cargo—grain and coal—declined, while volumes for lumber, petroleum products and
motor vehicles increased. Container volumes and small parcel shipments picked up during the reporting
period, while air freight activity declined in part due to a slowdown in international cargo volumes. Airlines noted slight softening in passenger demand in part due to seasonality and a decline in
travel to Europe. Demand for travel to Mexico picked up, while travel to Latin America and Asia held
steady. Domestic demand remained strong for both leisure and business travel. Contacts expect weaker
passenger demand over the next few months but noted it will likely remain near last year’s levels. Construction and Real Estate Housing activity remained strong since the last report. Contacts
said sales of new and existing homes continued at a good pace and were well above expectations.
Builders noted strong traffic and reported rising backlogs, while realtors said shrinking inventories had
led to price gains. Apartment demand remained strong, and contacts noted rising construction activity as
investors continue to be attracted to the market. Housing outlooks remain positive. Office and industrial real estate fundamentals remained healthy over the past six weeks. Leasing
activity continued at a good pace and some contacts noted a pick-up in property sales. Outlooks were
optimistic but cautious. Since the last report, there were a few signs that investors were becoming less
aggressive in pursuing commercial real estate deals, outside of multifamily. Financial Services Overall, loan demand softened somewhat during the reporting period.
Corporate lending activity remained weak, while residential real estate loan demand rose strongly. Loan
pricing remained competitive and deposits continued to grow. The quality of outstanding loans continued to
improve slowly as nonperforming loans declined. Outlooks were positive, but contacts expressed concern
about European debt issues, new regulations for community banks and the upcoming national elections. Energy Respondents at energy-related firms said overall activity remained at high levels, with
long lead times and growing backlogs. Drilling activity continued to shift from dry natural gas to oil and
natural gas liquids. While the shift has not affected overall activity levels, contacts expect a plateau in the
growth of rig activity through year-end, in part due to recent weakness in the price of natural gas liquids.
Oil-related activity continues to be strong, and contacts expect continued improvement in offshore drilling. Agriculture Drought conditions improved slightly due to scattered rainfall in July. Crops
remained mostly in fair to good shape, with the exception of dryland cotton crop in the Texas High Plains
region which suffered due to lack of moisture. Overall, crop conditions were much better than a year ago.
Drought in the Midwest has caused grain prices to climb sharply, squeezing margins for ranchers by
driving up feed costs for livestock.

 XII - 1 TWELFTH DISTRICT–SAN FRANCISCO
Summary Economic activity in the Twelfth District continued to expand at a modest pace during the reporting period of July through mid-August. Price inflation was limited for most final goods and services, and upward wage pressures were quite contained. Sales of retail items rose a bit further on net, and demand for most business and consumer services continued to expand. District manufacturing activity appeared to inch up on balance. Agricultural output expanded, while activity continued to trend up for providers of energy resources. Home demand in the District strengthened a bit further, and demand for commercial real estate was largely stable. Contacts from financial institutions reported that overall loan demand was unchanged or weakened slightly on balance. Wages and Prices Price inflation was limited for most final goods and services during the reporting period. Prices increased for some energy items, mainly crude oil, retail gasoline, and electricity, but natural gas prices remained near historic lows. Contacts also noted price increases for assorted food commodities, particularly grains, although meat prices reportedly have leveled off for the time being. For most products and services, vigorous competition among firms and cost-conscious purchasing behavior by consumers kept price inflation in check. Upward wage pressures were quite limited overall. Wage increases were noted for employees in some manufacturing sectors where wages had been flat for several years; the reported increases were moderate, in the 2 to 3 percent range. Wage gains also remained significant for workers with specialized skills in the application of information technology. Contacts in general reported very limited hiring plans for the balance of the year, suggesting that upward wage pressures will remain muted. Retail Trade and Services Retail sales expanded a bit further overall. Respondents in general indicated that sales strengthened somewhat in July compared with softness in May and June. Performance was stronger for discount chains than traditional department stores, particularly for online sales. At grocery stores,

 XII - 2
extensive bargain hunting by shoppers caused sales revenues to weaken a bit. The pace of auto sales
slowed somewhat compared with the prior reporting period, although it remained significantly above the
pace from the same period last year. Used vehicles have been in short supply, raising their trade-in values
and helping to spur sales of new vehicles. Demand for most business and consumer services expanded further. Sales continued to grow for a
wide variety of technology services, with expectations for further rapid growth in selected segments, such
as cloud computing services. Advertising revenues remained at high levels for radio and television
broadcasters in the District, but the slow drift of television production activities away from District
locales such as Los Angeles continued. Providers of health-care services noted a drop in the demand for
discretionary medical services and a consequent reduction in capacity utilization at medical care facilities.
Demand picked up further for restaurants and other food-service providers. Contacts in the District’s
travel and tourism sector reported additional gains for business and leisure travel, although the pace of
growth has slowed of late in some areas such as Las Vegas.
Manufacturing District manufacturing activity was mixed but appeared to inch up on balance during the
reporting period of July through mid-August. Production activity remained at high levels for makers of
commercial aircraft and parts. Demand continued to grow for pharmaceutical manufacturers. Output and
sales strengthened a bit further for manufacturers of wood products. By contrast, the slowdown continued
for makers of information technology equipment, with sales declines reported for some equipment
categories in recent months. Demand for steel was mostly stable at low levels, while sales of processed
scrap metal fell, largely as a result of a decline in overseas demand. For petroleum refiners, capacity
utilization rates increased somewhat, as growth in export sales for a range of refined products offset
weakness in domestic demand for gasoline.
Agriculture and Resource-related Industries Agricultural producers saw further sales gains, and extraction activity of natural resources used
for energy production continued to expand. Orders and sales grew for many crop and livestock products,

 XII - 3
and one report indicated that demand for cotton was particularly strong. The persistent drought in parts of
the country has raised grain and feed prices, prompting District cattle ranchers to reduce herd sizes.
Extraction activity for petroleum and natural gas remained at high levels or expanded a bit further on net,
although some producers have been shifting operations away from natural gas in response to continued
high inventories and the consequent low price.
Real Estate and Construction Home demand in the District continued to improve, while demand for commercial real estate was
largely stable. Although it is still well below its historical average, the sales pace for new and existing
homes picked up further in many areas, and some contacts pointed to pent-up demand that may spur
additional gains. Contacts also reported that the share of foreclosures and short sales in overall home sales
has been declining, and the quality of the inventory of available homes has improved. In some parts of the
District, a shortage of lower-priced homes and rental units has led to an ongoing increase in construction
activity, particularly for multifamily rental projects. Demand for nonresidential space was largely stable
overall, with construction activity largely limited to various public projects and remodeling of commercial
and industrial space.
Financial Institutions District banking contacts reported that loan demand was unchanged or down slightly on balance
compared with the prior reporting period. Business loan demand appeared to drop a bit, amid growing
reluctance by many firms to commit to expansion plans under current economic conditions. At the same
time, the reports continued to highlight ample liquidity and stiff competition among lenders to provide
credit to well-qualified business loan applicants. Demand for consumer credit remained relatively strong,
reflected primarily in high lending activity for automobile and home purchases.

