 For use at 2:00 p.m., E.S.T. Wednesday November 28, 2001
Summary of Commentary on Current Economic Conditions by Federal Reserve District November 2001

SUMMARY OF COMMENTARY ON CURRENT ECONOMIC CONDITIONS BY FEDERAL RESERVE DISTRICTS NOVEMBER 2001

 TABLE OF CONTENTS
SUMMARY............................................................................................................. i
First District - Boston............................................................................................ I-1
Second District - New York........................................................................................ II-1
Third District - Philadelphia.................................................................................... III-1
Fourth District - Cleveland....................................................................................... IV-1
Fifth District - Richmond.......................................................................................... V-1
Sixth District - Atlanta.......................................................................................... VI-1
Seventh District - Chicago....................................................................................... VII-1
Eighth District - St. Louis .................................................................................... VIII-1
Ninth District - Minneapolis...................................................................................... IX-1
Tenth District - Kansas City....................................................................................... X-1
Eleventh District - Dallas........................................................................................ XI-1
Twelfth District - San Francisco................................................................................. XII-1

 SUMMARY¹ Reports from the Federal Reserve districts indicate that economic activity generally remained soft in October and the first half of November, with evidence of additional slowing in most regions outweighing signs of recovery in a few districts. Manufacturing activity weakened further, with declines in production, new orders and employment widely reported. Consumer spending was mixed-aggressive financing incentives drove automobile and light truck sales to exceptional levels, but tourism remained weak and nonauto sales were spotty, with stronger sales growth in some areas offset by weaker sales elsewhere. Retailers' outlook for spending during the upcoming holiday season was also mixed. Store managers had already begun discounting prices in some areas to counteract weak customer traffic, while in other areas retailers' expectations for the season had brightened recently. Residential real estate generally held its own, with sales of moderately-priced homes steady and permits for new construction increasing modestly in all but a few regions. In contrast, the demand for commercial space eased further, pushing vacancy rates higher and rents lower in many areas. In the finance sector, the pace of residential mortgage refinancing activity accelerated as mortgage interest rates fell further. Business lending weakened though, reflecting softer loan demand and some tightening of lending standards. Labor markets continued to ease. Layoffs and downsizings contributed to a greater supply of available workers and wages were steady to lower. Prices were generally stable, although lower prices were in evidence for automobiles, gasoline, and computers. In contrast, prices for insurance and health care rose sharply. Consumer Spending: Consumer spending, while strengthening slightly in October and the first half of November, remained at or below pre-September 11 levels in most districts. Most Reserve Banks reported that sales of luxury goods weakened, as did sales at specialty and department stores. In contrast, discount retailers generally experienced stronger sales as consumers sought value. Store managers had mixed expectations about sales prospects for the upcoming holiday season. Retailers in
¹ Prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond and based on information collected before November 19, 2001. This document summarizes comments received from business and other contacts outside the Federal Reserve and is not a commentary on the views of Federal Reserve officials.

Philadelphia and San Francisco expected lower holiday sales, as did managers at upscale
stores in the Atlanta district. In contrast, retailers anticipated higher sales in Cleveland,
Richmond, St. Louis and Kansas City. Inventories at retail establishments were described
as too high in Boston, New York and Atlanta, but St. Louis said their contacts were
evenly split between those with inventories at desired levels and those with excess
inventories. Automobile sales surged, spurred by attractive dealer financing incentives.
Dealers in most districts reported strong sales in October but in November sales slowed
in Atlanta, Chicago, Minneapolis and Dallas. Looking ahead, automobile dealers
expressed concern that sales in coming months would fall as incentives ended. Two districts had upbeat reports on tourism while others continued to feel the
effects of September 11 and the slowing economy. New York reported that occupancy
rates in Manhattan, which plunged below 50 percent in late September, rebounded to
about 75 percent in October-12 percentage points below a year earlier. In addition,
some Manhattan hotel rooms were being used as interim office space by firms displaced
by the September 11 terrorist attacks. In the Richmond district, a contact attributed solid
holiday bookings to tourists staying closer to home because of concerns with airline
safety. Atlanta, St. Louis and Minneapolis reported that the hospitality and tourism
sectors continued to suffer from the slowing economy and the impact on air travel of the
terrorist attacks. Atlanta noted that a major car rental firm in Florida filed for Chapter 11
bankruptcy because of a sharp decline in activity and that the opening of a large hotel in
Orlando had been postponed as attendance at local tourist attractions waned. Manufacturing: Manufacturing activity weakened further in nearly all regions in
late October and the first half of November. More than two-thirds of the districts reported
that new orders and production decreased or grew more slowly. On balance, capital
expenditure plans remained weak, but contacts in several districts reported that the
general attitude of firms was to hold the line rather than to cut capital spending further.
Businesses continued to draw down their inventories with most districts suggesting that
the bulk of reductions was behind them. Five of the districts indicated that conditions in telecommunications and other
high-tech equipment manufacturing industries softened further during the survey period.
Other sectors experiencing declining shipments and orders included: construction-related

 iii
manufacturers in Dallas; heavy equipment producers, including trucks, in Chicago;
building products industries in Atlanta, Dallas and San Francisco; and furniture and
apparel manufacturers in Richmond. In contrast, firms producing food products in
Philadelphia, Kansas City and Dallas noted stronger-than-expected demand for their
products. However, Boston and Philadelphia reported that their contacts did not expect
business activity to improve until the second half of 2002. Construction and Real Estate: Residential real estate activity displayed little
change in most districts. Cleveland reported an improvement in home sales activity,
while Richmond, Chicago and Dallas indicated slower sales. In the Boston, New York
and Kansas City districts, sales activity was weaker for higher-priced homes.
Philadelphia and St. Louis reported that sales activity was mixed. In the Chicago district,
builders' expectations of future construction activity was mixed-some builders were
concerned that inventory was too low while other builders sought to withdraw from
signed purchase contracts for home sites. Residential building permits increased in the
New York, Philadelphia, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City and Dallas districts, while
the San Francisco Reserve Bank reported that permits declined in the San Francisco area
but remained strong in southern California. Declining mortgage rates made lower priced
homes more affordable for first-time homebuyers but did little to boost sales of homes in
upper price ranges, resulting in a surplus of higher-priced homes for sale in the Richmond
and St. Louis districts. Residential construction remained stable in St. Louis, Minneapolis
and Kansas City and declined in Chicago and San Francisco. Leasing activity in the commercial real estate sector weakened further across all
reporting districts. Increasing vacancy rates and softening rental rates were widely
reported, except in the Philadelphia district, where rental rates remained relatively stable
but were expected to decline. Commercial construction was flat in most districts,
although Cleveland and Richmond reported a modest number of projects underway or
planned for the near future. Banking and Finance: Lending activity was mixed in most districts, as stronger
demand for residential mortgage refinancing was offset by weaker demand for
commercial loans. New York, Cleveland, Richmond, and San Francisco reported higher
demand for residential mortgage loans. Atlanta and Chicago said that mortgage

refinancing was "brisk" and at "record levels," respectively. Demand for commercial or
business loans was said to be stable in New York, but "soft" in Cleveland, Atlanta, and
Chicago, "slipping" in Richmond, and "declining markedly" in San Francisco.
Philadelphia said that consumer, commercial, and real estate lending all declined, while
Kansas City reported that demand fell for all loan categories except home mortgages. Several districts reported tighter credit standards for bank lending and increases in
loan delinquencies. New York said that with the exception of residential mortgages,
credit standards for all types of loans tightened further while Atlanta reported some
tightening of credit standards for loans secured by commercial real estate. Cleveland and
Chicago reported declines in credit quality and increases in loan delinquencies.
Philadelphia indicated that banks were becoming more concerned about credit quality
because a growing number of business borrowers had fallen short of revenue goals. Labor Markets, Wages, and Prices: Labor markets continued to ease in most
districts. Extremely weak labor market conditions were reported by a major employment
agency in the New York district. Employment in New York City was reported to have
fallen by more than 70,000 in October. Boston reported widespread weakness in the
temporary employment industry; industry revenues were 30 to 40 percent lower than a
year ago. Cleveland and Richmond also reported weak or slowing demand for temporary
workers. In Cleveland, some industries were trimming employment as a result of the after
effects of September's terrorist attacks while layoffs continued in Minneapolis and
Dallas. In Boston, temporary employment agencies reported that clients were increasingly
seeking reductions in billing rates for temporary workers, but profit margins were being
maintained and wages were holding steady. Wages were slightly lower at small firms and
generally flat at larger firms in the New York district. In Cleveland wage pressures eased,
reportedly because workers were more uncertain about job security. Upward price pressures were subdued across all reporting districts. The majority
of the districts reported manufacturing input prices as flat to lower. Most districts noted
that prices for retail goods were steady to slightly down, but Atlanta experienced some
occurrences of "deep discounting." Most districts noted a dramatic increase in costs for
property insurance and/or healthcare related products and services.

 Agriculture and Natural Resources: A dry autumn reduced agricultural
production in some regions, and low commodity prices affected both agricultural and
energy producers. Arid conditions in Richmond, Kansas City and Dallas depleted topsoil
moisture, causing poor germination of small grain crops in those areas. Respondents in
these districts also reported that range and pasture conditions deteriorated as dry weather
persisted, increasing the need for supplemental feeding of livestock. Kansas City noted
that dry conditions limited forage supplies in some areas of the district, encouraging
ranchers to liquidate herds despite weak prices this fall. In contrast, the St. Louis district
received heavy rain at times, which delayed the planting of the wheat crop, but
replenished soil moisture. Credit quality deteriorated as low prices for agricultural products and cattle
prevailed in a number of districts. Lenders in the Minneapolis district reported a 10
percent drop in cattle prices over the past month, adversely affecting many of their
customers' ability to repay loans. Atlanta and San Francisco indicated that a decline in
world demand for textile products and high levels of domestic production has led to some
of the lowest cotton prices in the past 25 years. Activity in the energy and mining sectors was down. In the Minneapolis district,
oil and natural gas exploration and production were below the levels of early October.
Contacts in the Dallas district said that energy activity has gone from overheated to very
cool in a short period of time. Prices for oil services and rigs have softened as a result of
weaker demand, although strong pockets of domestic activity and high levels of activity
in international markets are propping up revenues and profitability. A large northern iron
ore mine in Minnesota reduced production starting in mid-October because of weak
orders from steel producers and a platinum mine in Montana decreased output.

 I-1 FIRST DISTRICT - BOSTON Although retailers report some rebound from September lows, most business contacts in the First
District report sales or revenue in October and early November below year-earlier levels. Many have cut
or are cutting jobs. Capital spending is said to have steadied at a low level. Most respondents express
great uncertainty about the timing of the recovery.
Retail Most retail contacts say sales bounced back partially in October and early November after steep
September declines, but overall sales for the September through early November period were below year-
earlier levels and below expectations. Sales of surplus merchandise, an "inverse barometer" of the
economy, boomed during the same period. Employment levels are reported to be either flat or declining as wage rates continue to rise at a 3
to 4 percent pace. Most retail contacts say they are holding prices steady and their profit margins are
steady as a result. By exception, computers and footwear are being heavily discounted in order to move
inventories. Some vendors are said to be reducing prices. Retailers' expectations have adapted to current conditions. Only those selling construction
supplies and home furnishings expect sales to improve in the near term. Most expect flat to negative
results through next summer, with a turnaround in the economy in the third or fourth quarter of 2002.
Manufacturing and Related Services First District manufacturing contacts report that third-quarter and early fourth-quarter revenues
are largely down from a year ago. The few firms whose sales are flat or rising slightly describe their
results as subpar and say they are under pressure to discount their products in order to maintain or
increase their market share. The sharpest sales declines are reported by companies selling equipment and
supplies to the semiconductor, telecommunications, and aerospace/airline industries. Many manufacturers note that their receivables are rising or that customers appear to be having
cash flow problems. Concerns are especially pronounced among contacts selling to retailers (with the
notable exception of Wal-Mart). Most manufacturers are still reducing their inventories. However, many

 I-2
say that most of the reductions are behind them or that this will be the case by year-end. Contacts report that selling prices are flat or under downward pressure. Materials costs are
largely flat and energy costs have fallen. However, quotes for property and casualty insurance are "going
through the roof." Many manufacturers reduced employment during 2001, some as recently as September and
October. Most are now waiting to see whether these measures are adequate to contain costs, although a
few plan furloughs around the upcoming holidays or are still implementing scheduled head count
reductions. Similarly, the general stance with respect to capital spending is to "hold the line" rather than
cutting further. Manufacturers frequently mention that they have frozen wages and salaries or are
granting only minimal increases. Several point to a need to contain fringe benefit expenses, especially in
light of rising health insurance costs. Preliminary forecasts for 2002 are uncertain but mostly assume that revenues will be similar to
2001 levels. Most contacts expect that the first half of the year will be tough, with a recovery taking hold
in the second half.
Temporary Employment The temporary employment industry continues to weaken. Overall revenues are reported to have
dropped 30 to 40 percent from a year ago. Client companies are increasing pressure to reduce billing
rates, but profit margins are holding; nevertheless, profits have fallen with volume. The weakness is
widespread, with contacts supplying technical and IT workers hit the hardest, but respondents report some
growth in demand for workers in customer service, pharmaceuticals, bio-sciences, mortgage and banking,
securities, and non profit organizations. This quarter, traditionally busy because of the holidays, shows
no surge in business to date. On the supply side, the market is overflowing with inquiries from job
seekers. Client companies are interviewing more candidates and taking longer to fill positions. Wages
are generally holding steady. Contacts expect that the current quarter and the first quarter of 2002 will be
soft. Many predict a rebound in the second or third quarter of 2002.

Commercial Real Estate Commercial real estate markets in New England have deteriorated significantly during the past
few months. Boston area contacts report double-digit vacancy rates, with most of the newly vacant space
subleased by tenants who do not need space they had committed to pay for. Besides low demand,
developers say it is difficult to insure new buildings following the terrorist attacks. While available
inventory is rising, rental rates have been declining. In Boston, the decline in rents has been modest so
far, but in the suburbs, rates are reported to have halved. The rest of New England is experiencing milder
weakening, albeit from much lower peaks. A Rhode Island contact reports "a bit of a downturn," with
basically flat vacancy and rental rates. Most contacts expect the market to remain weak for quite some
time, noting that real estate is typically last to recover from a recession.
Software and Information Technology Services According to most respondents, demand for software products has returned to expected levels in
October after falling off in September; overall, demand is "flat to up slightly." Some report that potential
customers are still too "distracted" by September's events to move forward on planned software upgrades.
Contacts that are doing well offer a range of explanations, including their competitors going out of
business, improving "sentiment" toward technology, and introduction of a new product. All are uneasy about the future. While most believe that the national economy has "bottomed
out," none will venture a guess as to when the recovery will begin. One respondent said that uncertainty
prevented the company from writing a business plan more than two quarters into the future. Generally,
respondents reported that they are planning on keeping employment level. Capital spending also
continues to be only by necessity, with a few exceptions. One company is in the process of acquiring
competitors, distribution outlets, and some additional application providers whose capabilities they want
to add to their software. Another firm will upgrade its internal software because a supplier offered an 80
percent discount and 180-day payment schedule. Both say these moves position them for the recovery.

 II-1 SECOND DISTRICT--NEW YORK The Second District's economy has shown signs of rebounding from the depressed levels of the
last report. Despite the apparent pickup in economic activity, labor markets have continued to show
signs of deteriorating. Department stores report that sales have improved steadily since the last report,
though they remain below plan. While prices appear steady to somewhat lower, businesses report
widespread increases in insurance costs. Housing markets in and around New York City have rebounded as of mid-November, though
Manhattan's rental market remains soft. Manhattan's office market continued to ease in October, as
a sizable amount of space has come onto the market. Hotel occupancy rates rebounded considerably
in October, though they are still about 10 to 15 points lower than a year ago. Purchasing managers
report substantial weakening in business conditions in the New York City area, but only modest
declines in upstate New York; they also indicate steady to declining input prices. Finally, bankers
report weaker demand for consumer loans, stronger demand for home mortgages, further tightening in
credit standards, and little change in delinquency rates, based on the latest survey, taken in early
November.
Consumer Spending Retailers generally report that sales were below plan in late October and early November, with
year-to-year comparable store sales ranging from down 8 percent to up 4 percent. Discounters
continued to out-perform department stores, but by a narrower margin than in the last report. Sales at
Manhattan stores, which experienced the sharpest declines in the weeks following the attack, have
rebounded briskly in October and early November, though they continue to under-perform. A major discount chain notes increased traffic but lower sales per customer. One large
department store chain reports particular weakness in luggage sales, but some pickup in home-related

 II-2
merchandise, such as furniture, linens and kitchen-wear. In general, apparel sales have been sluggish,
though the women's segment has done substantially better than men's wear. Most contacts report that inventories are a bit high but in relatively good shape. However,
markdowns are expected to be more pronounced this holiday season than last year. Selling prices and
merchandise costs are reported to be running little changed to slightly lower than a year ago. While
wages are little changed and energy costs are down noticeably, retail contacts report sizable increases
in medical insurance costs and dramatic increases in property insurance premiums. Separately, a survey of New York State residents conducted by Siena College in October shows
a moderate rebound in consumer confidence in the New York City area, following steady declines from
June to September. In upstate New York, confidence levels have been fairly steady since July but are
substantially lower than a year ago.
Construction and Real Estate Manhattan's office market continued to ease in October-availability rates edged down in
Midtown Manhattan but rose slightly in Midtown South and rose sharply in Lower Manhattan. Part of
Lower Manhattan's softening is due to several of the less seriously damaged buildings near Ground
Zero coming back on-line. Also, ongoing transportation disruptions and sub-par air quality may be
affecting demand, at least in the short run. A large majority of the displaced firms have reportedly
relocated to Midtown Manhattan. On the residential side, market conditions appear to have improved since the last report.
Homebuilders in northern New Jersey indicate that demand for new homes has picked up since the last
report. Traffic has improved markedly, though prospective buyers have become "more tenuous"-
waiting longer to buy, making more repeat visits, and ordering fewer upgrades and amenities. Prices
have held steady, though the reduction in upgrades is expected to reduce the reported average price.

 II-3 Labor and materials are no longer in short supply, as had been the case earlier in the year. In Manhattan, a major real estate appraisal firm reports that co-op and condo sales volume has
rebounded slowly but steadily in recent weeks, though it is still lower than a year ago. Separately, a
leading New York City real estate firm reports that apartment sales activity has picked up substantially
in the first half of November, following a slump in late September and October, while the number of
listings has increased only moderately. For the most part, there is lively bidding on units whose asking
prices have been reduced by 5 to 10 percent. Both contacts indicate that the high end of the market has
weakened the most, while reduced mortgage rates have reportedly helped the market for small
apartments. Geographically, prices in Chelsea, Soho, and Tribeca are said to be down about 10 percent,
on average, but selling prices in uptown Manhattan appear to be down only a few percent.
Other Business Activity New York City employment plunged by more than 70,000 in October, while New Jersey's job
count rose by 11,000. The New York number was depressed, and New Jersey's boosted, by the-in
many cases quite temporary-displacement of Wall Street jobs across the Hudson. A major New York
City employment agency, specializing in mid-level office jobs, reports extremely weak labor market
conditions; the only notable hiring activity is coming from law firms, while financial and business
service firms are hiring only very selectively. More generally, while small firms are said to be offering
slightly lower salaries than earlier in the year, compensation at larger firms is generally flat. Tourism to New York City appears to have rebounded since the last report. Manhattan hotels
report that occupancy rates, which plunged below 50 percent in late September, rebounded to about 75
percent in October-only 12 points lower than a year earlier. Some firms displaced temporarily by the
terrorist attack have been using Manhattan hotels as interim office space. Hotels have reportedly
reduced their room rates by 25 percent, on average, since the attack, with some establishments in Lower

 II-4
Manhattan making reductions of up to 40 percent. Hotels in northern New Jersey report occupancy
rates close to 70 percent in October-also down about 10 to 15 points from a year ago-and similar
trends are reported in Long Island. Purchasing managers report substantial weakening in business conditions in the New York City
area, with a sharp deterioration in both the manufacturing and non-manufacturing sectors between early-
September and early-October. Widespread price declines were reported, especially for manufacturing
inputs. The picture in upstate New York appears less dire: Buffalo-area purchasers note some further
weakening in business conditions in October-employment declines were fairly widespread, but trends
in production activity and new orders were mixed. Rochester-area purchasing managers report
continued weakness in general business conditions, but to a lesser extent than in September; input prices
are reported to be flat to lower.
Financial Developments According to the latest survey of small to medium-sized Second District banks, conducted in
November, demand for loans has been mixed since the last report. While demand for consumer loans
decreased fairly substantially, on balance, widespread increases were reported for residential mortgages,
as well as refinancing activity. Demand for nonresidential mortgages and for commercial and industrial
loans remained stable. On the supply side, credit standards tightened further for all types of loans, except for residential
mortgages, which remained stable. No bankers report easing of standards for any types of loans.
Widespread declines were reported in both loan rates and deposit rates. Delinquency rates were
reported to be little changed for all types of lending.

 III-1 THIRD DISTRICT - PHILADELPHIA Business conditions in the Third District remained soft in November.
Manufacturers reported continuing declines in shipments and orders. Retail sales of
general merchandise have been improving slowly week by week, but are still below year-
ago levels. However, auto sales have been running at a very high rate, boosted by
manufacturers' incentive financing. Bank loan volumes have declined in the major credit
categories: business, consumer, and real estate. Commercial real estate markets have
eased. Home sales rose during October and November, but appear to be off from the
same months last year. Firms in a variety of industries in the region have announced
layoffs and hiring freezes, but the pace of job cuts does not appear to be accelerating. The outlook in the Third District business community is generally subdued.
Manufacturers predict an upturn by the middle of next year, but in other sectors forecasts
are less optimistic. Retailers expect sales for the holiday shopping period this year to be
below last year's level, and they are concerned that sales might remain weak into the
spring of next year. Auto dealers expect a large drop in sales in the first quarter of next
year, as consumer demand ebbs and manufacturers' zero-interest rate financing ends.
Bank credit officers expect commercial and industrial lending and consumer credit
demand to remain soft, and they expect a drop in real estate lending. Contacts in the real
estate industry forecast easing rents and rising vacancy rates in commercial markets and
some falloff in the rate of home sales. The general opinion is that the decline in real
estate and construction activity will be modest.
MANUFACTURING Third District manufacturers continued to report decreases in activity in
November, with little change in the rate of decline. Orders and shipments were down
compared with October in nearly all the major manufacturing sectors in the region,
although some firms producing electrical equipment and food products reported increases
in orders. A majority of the region's manufacturers maintained steady employment and
working hours in November compared with October, although around one-third made
cuts, and only a few firms expanded employment or hours. Area firms continued to

 III-2
reduce inventories, on balance, although some firms indicated that inventory reductions
have brought stocks down to desired levels. Around one in five firms said they will
maintain lower than usual inventory levels because they anticipate a slow recovery in
demand for their products. The region's manufacturers generally reported further
softening in prices for both inputs and the goods they manufacture, although firms in the
food products and electrical equipment sectors have increased prices for their products as
demand has picked up. Local manufacturers have slightly trimmed their forecasts lately. Just over half of
the firms surveyed in November forecast increases in orders and shipments during the
next six months, but some firms that had previously anticipated a relatively quick upturn
now expect business to be flat through most of the first half of next year. On balance,
area firms have cut back capital spending plans, but they do not plan to reduce
employment from current levels.
RETAIL Third District retailers reported gradual weekly improvement in sales in October
and November, but most indicated that the recent sales pace remains below the rate set in
October and November of last year. Discount stores posted moderate year-over-year
gains, but sales at department and specialty stores were down. Merchants said shoppers
are mainly buying necessary goods and staples. Sales of luxury goods have been
especially slow at all types of stores. Some merchants also noted that credit sales have
slipped relative to cash sales. Store officials said they are fully stocked for the holiday
shopping period, but may trim orders for spring merchandise. Area retailers expect sales for this year's holiday season to be below last year's.
They expect extensive promotions and marketing efforts will be required to make their
sales goals, and they are concerned that profits will suffer as a result. Retailers suggested
that sales in December and January will be crucial to their plans for the spring. If holiday
sales are significantly below current expectations, retailers will cut back orders for
merchandise, advertising expenditures, and expansion plans. Auto sales in the region have been very brisk, in response to manufacturers' zero-
interest rate financing. Dealers expect sales to fall off sharply in the first quarter of next

 III-3
year as consumer demand becomes sated and manufacturers' incentive-financing
programs end. Dealers have been limiting their orders to manufacturers in anticipation of
the drop in sales.
FINANCE Lending at major Third District banks has been easing. Outstanding loan volume
has declined in all major credit categories-commercial, consumer, and real estate. Bank
lending officers said demand for business loans has been particularly slow. Some
bankers noted that their business customers who have term loans have expressed interest
in paying them off ahead of schedule. Several bankers said businesses are reluctant to
expand now because economic conditions are uncertain or because they want to wait to
take advantage of anticipated tax legislation favorable to capital investment. Concern
about business credit quality has grown at banks in the region as a growing number of
business borrowers have fallen short of their sales or revenue goals. Nevertheless, most
of the bankers contacted for this report said they are still actively seeking to increase their
commercial loans. Bankers in the Third District expect business loan demand to remain soft until
there are clear signs that business conditions are improving. They expect demand for
new homes to fall, and some are limiting their lending to building contractors. Bankers
expect consumer lending to expand slowly as retail sales regain some lost ground.
REAL ESTATE AND CONSTRUCTION Third District commercial real estate markets have eased in the past few months.
The vacancy rate for office buildings has risen by one to two percentage points in most
market areas in the region. In the Philadelphia central business district, the vacancy rate
has risen to around 13 percent, according to recent estimates by commercial real estate
firms. In suburban markets, the rate has risen to an average of 14 percent. Vacancy rates
have risen as new buildings have come on the market in the suburbs. Also, firms in the
Philadelphia central business district and in the suburbs have reduced their use of space,
making more space available for sublease. Rental rates have been relatively stable
despite softening demand, but commercial real estate agents expect rents to begin

 III-4
trending down throughout the region. Demand for industrial space has also eased.
Although the industrial vacancy rate has been steady, many new buildings have become
available recently, and real estate agents expect vacancy rates to begin moving up. Residential real estate agents gave mixed reports. Sales to first-time homebuyers
have been resilient, but sales of high-priced homes have eased. Some contacts in the real
estate industry also noted a falloff in sales of homes and townhouses in senior citizen
communities. Homebuilders reported that sales picked up in October after a sharp drop
in September. The higher rate of sales appeared to be persisting in November, but not
increasing. Builders have raised prices for homes in most price ranges except the very
high end, where demand has eased. Real estate agents and builders indicated that
relatively low mortgage interest rates have encouraged first-time homebuyers, and move-
up buyers are looking more favorably on house purchases as investments. Real estate
agents expect an easing in the sales rate, but not a sharp drop unless employment in the
region falls more sharply.

 IV-1 FOURTH DISTRICT - CLEVELAND Reports gathered in early November suggest the Fourth District economy has bottomed
out. None of the contacts surveyed expects economic conditions to worsen, and signs of
recovery are beginning to emerge: Manufacturers reported some improvement in the level of
new orders, steelmakers reported that prices have stabilized, retailers reported strong sales
among discount chains and improved forecasts for holiday sales, bankers reported improvement
in their net interest margins, residential builders reported business is near the same levels as last
year, and commercial builders expect prospects to brighten with the new year. While business in
December may remain sluggish, most industries expect conditions to improve markedly during
the first half of 2002. In the labor market, however, job security continues to be a serious concern. Some
industries have suffered major losses in employment as a result of the economic downturn and
the September 11 attacks. Other industries that were not able to shed jobs through layoffs and
restructuring have stopped filling open positions to reduce labor costs. The demand for
temporary workers has slowed considerably over the past few weeks. Wage pressures have
eased, reportedly because workers are more uncertain about their jobs. Benefits costs are rising,
with most contacts specifically identifying increasing health care costs. Skilled labor is easily
available, and open positions are being filled with minimal recruiting efforts.
Manufacturing Although several manufacturing indicators in the District continued to decline in October
and early November, some improvement in new orders in the northern part of the District and a
slowdown in the decline in new orders in the southern part of the District suggest that industry
conditions may improve during the first quarter of 2002. Most manufacturing contacts reported
that employees were working shorter weeks with no overtime. Contacts in the steel industry noted that prices stabilized in October and November, but
did so at very low levels. Most companies reported selling steel at or below cost, and contacts
noted that companies operating under bankruptcy protection are pricing their products artificially
low to keep their contracts, contributing to the downward price pressures in the industry.
Steelmakers that produce niche products reported for the first time that business was sluggish,
but noted that they do not expect this weakness to persist.

 IV-2
Retail Sales Reports from area retailers were mixed: discount retailers reported that October sales
figures were much stronger than last year's, while higher-end retailers, apparel retailers, and
retailers located in malls reported very weak sales. Some contacts reported that year-over-year
sales were down as much as 15 percent. Several contacts noted a continued shift in consumer
preferences from more expensive, high-end products to lower-priced products. Retailer forecasts for the holiday season have improved since the last report, reportedly
due to positive consumer response to aggressive advertising, increased discounts, and special
promotions. In our last report, retailers were generally pessimistic about the holiday season, but
now most retailers are characterizing their outlook as "cautiously" or "guardedly" optimistic.
Discount retailers have a more optimistic outlook, and expect above average-sales this year.
Apparel retailers appear to be an exception to the increasing optimism in the District, with most
still forecasting year-over-year sales to be down around 5 percent. Automobile dealers reported that manufacturers' offers of zero-percent financing led to
record sales in October, and initial reports for November suggest that, although sales have begun
to slow, this month's sales figures will also be higher year-over-year. Strong sales during the last
quarter of 2001 are expected to result in a significant drop in sales for first quarter 2002, but
dealers expect sales to return to "normal" levels during second quarter 2002.
Construction Commercial contractors reported that bidding for jobs has become more competitive over
the last six weeks. Many firms are taking jobs they would not normally take in order to maintain
current staffing levels through the winter months, as they anticipate needing their staff for
projects in the spring. Contacts have seen an increase in the number of projects scheduled for the
spring and less hesitation by customers to move forward on projects that had been in the
planning stages or delayed. Most homebuilders reported that sales improved in October and early November and
levels were similar to those at this time last year. The current pace of sales, however, is still
substantially slower than earlier in the year. Nevertheless, customer traffic continues to improve,
causing most homebuilders to be "cautiously optimistic."
Trucking and Shipping Trucking and shipping activity improved little in October, and there has been a decline in
the volumes shipped for November, partly due to seasonality. Activity is significantly down

 IV-3
year-over-year. The volume of steel and manufacturing-related goods carried remains depressed. Contacts noted that shipping of retail and auto-related goods did not increase as much as expected given the October sales gains for discount retail goods. This suggests that inventoried
goods, rather than increased production, have accounted for a large share of recent retail sales. The outlook offered by our contacts indicates that activity will remain weak at least
through first quarter 2002. Both carriers and their customers have moved in recent weeks to
protect their declining profit margins against increasing cost pressures. Customers continue to
transfer freight hauling from air to ground. Carriers are curtailing capital expenditures, and some
are phasing in slight rate increases. Although the industry is very competitive, these price
increases have stuck because customers appear to be willing to pay a premium for reliable and
financially stable carriers during a time when many trucking companies have gone, and continue
to go, bankrupt.
Banking Most banks reported improvement in their net interest margins due to the lower cost of
borrowing, but a few contacts did report tightening net interest margins. Competition for
borrowers remains aggressive across all lines of lending. Demand for commercial loans
continues to be soft in the District, but consumer loan demand has been mixed. There has been
some increase in mortgage lending, as consumers refinance to take advantage of lower interest
rates, but there has been significant decrease in demand for auto loans as consumers are opting
for zero-percent financing offered by manufacturers. On balance, the number of loan
applications has remained steady. All contacts except one reported a slight decrease in credit
quality, and most banks reported a slight increase in the rate of loan delinquencies over the last
six weeks.
Travel and Tourism Contacts believe tourism in the District has remained fairly insulated from the effects of
September 11 because it does not rely heavily on air travel, but current levels are slightly lower
than before September 11. Business travel, which had already been declining more than tourist
travel prior to September 11, continues to drop. Most of the decline in business travel is
attributed to cutbacks in business spending to address current economic conditions. Although
some meetings and conventions were cancelled in the weeks following September 11, these
cancellations were rather limited and did not persist.

 FIFTH DISTRICT-RICHMOND Overview: Fifth District economic activity edged lower in October and the first few weeks of
November as services and manufacturing firms reported softer demand. Widespread declines in
revenues at travel related businesses such as airlines and car rental companies contributed to moderate
drops in overall service sector revenues and employment. Manufacturing activity also fell as
shipments, new orders, and employment tumbled in October. Automobile sales jumped sharply, while
non-automobile sales stabilized, and retailers turned more optimistic about sales prospects for the
upcoming holiday season. Residential and commercial real estate activity slowed, although lower
mortgage rates buffered the declines. Lending activity was mixed-an increase in refinancings
contributed to a pickup in residential mortgage lending, but commercial lending slipped as demand for
business loans softened. In agriculture, pastures were in poor condition in many areas as dry weather
continued to deplete soil moisture. Retail: Automobile sales surged, although retail sales outside the automobile sector were
mixed. A contact at a department store in Charleston, W.V., reported a drop in shopper traffic and
sales, as did a discount retailer in Raleigh, N.C. Several other retailers, however, said shopper traffic
was up compared to September levels. A contact at a bookstore in Concord, N.C., reported,
"Everybody's decided to go shopping again." Automobile sales across the District soared as dealers
offered zero percent financing and other attractive sales incentives. But an auto dealer in the
Washington, D.C. area warned, "When the incentives stop, it'll look like [dealers] shut the front door."
Retail employment dipped in October, and few retailers we spoke with were hiring other than for
seasonal help. Retailers, however, turned markedly more optimistic about holiday sales prospects. Services: Services businesses reported moderately lower revenues and employment since our
last report. Airlines, hotels near airports, and car rental firms continued to report weaker demand in
the aftermath of the September 11th terrorist attacks. In addition, contacts at freight services firms in
Maryland and North Carolina noted softer demand, which they attributed to slower economic growth.
Engineering firms in central North Carolina that rely heavily on state government contracts were
adversely affected by lower government spending. Contacts at several services firms said that they
reduced employee hours and were not filling some vacant positions. Manufacturing: After two months of slight growth, manufacturing activity contracted
moderately in October and the first half of November-shipments, new orders, and order backlogs all
declined from their September levels. Output was down substantially in the apparel, chemicals, and

furniture industries. A furniture manufacturer in North Carolina told us that attendance at the October
Furniture Market in High Point, N.C., declined by 30 to 35 percent this year and that orders were off
by 25 percent. Several textile producers reported weaker sales due to sluggish economic conditions
worldwide. Employment in the manufacturing sector fell sharply; one textile producer stated that
bankruptcies and plant shutdowns would likely continue for a while in his industry. Prices for
manufactured goods were generally flat. Finance: District loan officers said that commercial lending slowed somewhat in recent weeks
while residential mortgage lending picked up as declining mortgage rates spurred refinancings.
Several commercial bankers noted that loan demand slipped because many companies had curtailed
plans for business expansion in recent months. Few lenders expected commercial demand to pick up
in coming months although a commercial lender in South Carolina noted that a number of
manufacturers in that area had cut costs sharply and were well positioned for a turnaround. Residential
mortgage lending received a strong boost from brisk refinancing activity-a Greenville, S.C.,
mortgage lender said that refinancings now accounted for 90 percent of his business. Several
residential mortgage lenders noted delays in processing loan applications because of the sharp
increase in applicants in recent weeks. Real Estate: Residential realtors and homebuilders reported slower growth in home sales
since our last report. A realtor told us that sales in the Washington, D.C., area remained strong in
October but that growth had moderated "a bit." He reported that the area had become a little more of a
"buyers' rather than sellers' market." A Richmond, Va., contact said that houses were staying on the
market longer and that prices on some were being reduced. Declining mortgage rates made lower
priced homes more affordable for first-time homebuyers but did little to boost sales of homes in upper
price ranges. In Greenville, S.C., sluggish sales of higher priced homes created a "flood" of inventory
according to realtors there. Commercial realtors across the District reported generally weaker leasing activity. A realtor in
Bethesda, Md., described the commercial market as "slow, but steady." A Richmond, Va., realtor
noted that leasing activity in the office sector could be attributed mainly to small firms "taking bites
here and there" rather than large firms leasing substantial blocks of space. The availability of Class A
office space increased slightly, except in Washington, D.C., where the federal government continued
to seek office space for employees recently hired to bolster security and assist in the war effort. Rental
rates fell slightly across all sectors, with landlords' rent and facility upgrade concessions increasingly

 V-3
becoming the norm. New construction of build-to-suit projects, targeted mainly for small- to mid-
sized professional groups such as law practices, increased across the District. Tourism: District tourism continued to rebound from the steep declines experienced
immediately after the events of September 11. There were somewhat stronger bookings for the
Thanksgiving holiday-a manager at a resort in Virginia attributed the solid holiday patronage to
tourists opting to stay closer to home because of concerns with airline safety. He also told us that East
Coast ski resorts should see an increase in patronage because fewer skiers will be traveling to resorts
in the west. A contact at a hotel in Myrtle Beach noted that although October and early November
bookings were slightly below normal, he expected business over the Thanksgiving holiday to equal or
surpass last year's level. Respondents in Washington, D.C., reported that the hospitality industry was
finally rebounding-bookings improved and many hospitality workers returned to work in the last few
weeks. Temporary Employment: Contacts at temporary employment agencies generally continued
to report relatively weak demand for workers since our last report. Rising unemployment rates in
many areas of the District have made it more difficult for some temporary employment agencies to
land jobs for workers. An agent in Rockville, Md., said "savvy" employers realize they can pay
slightly less now and still attract high quality candidates who are "desperate for work." While many
temporary employment agents expected demand for workers to continue to weaken because of the
sagging economy, a firm in Raleigh, N.C., reported that demand over the next six months should
increase as some area employers move forward with expansion plans that had been put on hold. He
reported an increase in demand for workers in the biotech, financial, and e-commerce industries. Agriculture: Dry weather has persisted in October and early November, depleting topsoil
moisture and causing statewide bans on burning in many areas of the District. In South Carolina and
West Virginia, farmers hauled water and fed hay to livestock as pasture conditions deteriorated. In
addition, dry weather caused poor germination of small grain crops in North Carolina and Virginia.
Dry weather, however, facilitated harvesting of soybeans and corn in many areas of the District.

 VI-1 SIXTH DISTRICT - ATLANTA Summary: District contacts indicated that economic conditions in the Southeast
continued to be weak despite record auto sales in October and the continued resilience of
housing markets. Retailers reported that sales growth through mid-November had moderated
after a strong rebound in October. The single-family housing market remained solid overall,
whereas commercial real estate markets weakened further. Manufacturing production declined
and plant closings and layoff announcements continued. Tourist activity rebounded from post-
attack lows but fell short of year-ago levels. Few signs of inflation were apparent apart from
increased healthcare and insurance costs. Retail Spending: According to District retailers, sales growth improved considerably in October but then pulled back slightly in early November. Discount retailers continued to fare much better than their department and specialty store counterparts. About one-half of the retailers contacted said that recent sales were below expectations and inventories were high. By most accounts, deep discounting and promotions have become the norm. The outlook for the holiday season amongst retailers remained mixed. Discount merchants' expected modest sales improvements and upscale retailers anticipated flat to lower sales compared with last year. Auto sales increased to record levels in the District in response to the zero percent financing and extended warranty incentives offered by several manufacturers. Industry contacts reported dramatic gains in October sales compared with a year ago, far exceeding their sales objectives and sharply reducing inventory levels. The pace of sales slowed in early November as the financing incentives narrowed in scope. Record numbers of trade-ins and rental car fleet reductions have caused used car inventories to swell across the District leading to sharp declines in used car prices.

 VI-2 Real Estate and Construction: The single-family housing market remained quite solid
through early November with the most positive reports coming from Florida. The demand for
low- to mid-priced homes was steady across the District, whereas the demand for high-priced
homes softened in markets such as Atlanta and Nashville. Most contacts expected that home sales and new home construction would moderate in the fourth quarter. Office and industrial real
estate markets continued to weaken in the face of higher vacancy rates and additional sublease space. Rental rates declined in several markets. Contacts reported that a pickup in commercial
construction was not expected until the second half of next year. Manufacturing: The manufacturing sector continued to trim production and payrolls in
October and November. The investment strategies of manufacturers remained conservative, and
only essential capital expenditures were undertaken. Many businesses have increased
expenditures on security equipment and security personnel. Manufacturers announced layoffs
and production cuts in the electronics, automobile, shipbuilding, tire, and building products
industries. In one positive development, the U.S. Department of Defense awarded the Joint
Strike Fighter plane production to Lockheed Martin, securing jobs at the company's large
Marietta, Georgia facility. Tourism and Business Travel: Contacts reported that the District's hospitality and
tourism sector continued to reel from the slowing economy and the impact of the terrorist attacks
on air travel. Hotel, car rental agencies, airlines, and cruise lines in central and south Florida
have experienced some improvement in business from the record lows following the September
11th attacks but remained well-below normal levels for October and November. A major car
rental firm based in south Florida filed for Chapter 11 protection because of a sharp decline in
activity. The opening of a large hotel in Orlando was postponed as attendance at local tourist

 VI-3 attractions waned. The travel slowdown also affected hotels in Atlanta and along the Mississippi Gulf Coast. Florida tourism officials are hoping that sales incentives, lower gas prices, and an early, cold winter in the North will improve the state's tourism numbers. Reservations in Florida for the December through April period were on an increasing trend through mid-November. Financial: Commercial loan demand softened further in the Sixth District according to reports, but mortgage refinancing remained brisk in early November. Deposit growth was sluggish in some parts of the region, and there was some tightening of credit standards for loans secured by commercial real estate. There has been no sign of improvement in the District's
venture capital markets. Wages and Prices: According to reports, wage pressures were subdued in the District.
However, hospitals are operating at high capacity and are aggressively hiring nurses,
pharmacists, and other health care workers. Some double-digit percentage increases in health
care charges and insurance premiums were reported while home price increases moderated.
Large price declines were reported for hotel accommodation and other travel-related services. In
addition, energy prices decreased sharply across the District, leading to a reduction in gas and oil
activity in Louisiana. Agriculture: The decrease in world demand for textile products and high levels of
domestic production has led to some of the lowest cotton prices in the past 25 years. Cotton is
the largest cash crop in Mississippi, Louisiana and Georgia. A lower than expected forecast for
this season's Florida citrus crop, together with reported disease problems in Brazil, was good
news to local citrus growers who had been facing low prices and strong competition from
Brazilian producers.

 VII-1 SEVENTH DISTRICT-CHICAGO Summary. Economic activity in the Seventh District remained soft through October and mid-November. Consumer spending was modest ahead of the holiday shopping season, and some retailers were already discounting merchandise to attract shoppers. Construction activity slowed in recent months, with weakening reported in both residential and nonresidential segments. Conditions in manufacturing industries continued to soften, despite relatively strong light vehicle sales. Home refinancing activity remained very strong, but demand for business loans was said to be waning. Joblessness continued to rise with the slowing economy, and near- term hiring plans were lowered. The fall harvest lagged behind the pace of recent years, but as of mid-November was nearing completion under ideal weather conditions. Consumer spending. Retail spending was mixed, but generally soft, through October and mid-November as consumers remained value-conscious. Again, discounters reported stronger sales results than general merchandisers. Home entertainment, home improvement, automotive, and toys were said to be sales leaders at retail outlets. Contacts reported that some merchants were aggressively discounting merchandise to get a jump on holiday sales. One large District auto group reported that light vehicle sales were very strong in October, but fell in
November, due in part to very lean inventories. Eating and drinking places noted erratic sales results, "day to day and week to week." Weak business spending was hurting midweek restaurant sales, while longer waits at airports were said to be bolstering sales at eateries inside
the terminals. To boost traffic, some restaurants were adding lower-priced choices to their
menus which, along with consumers' recent tendency to "trade down" the menu, resulted in
lower average check prices. Business travel generally remained weak, but reports on conventions
were mixed. Contacts in some areas reported several event cancellations and lower attendance,
while others said there were no cancellations and strong attendance. There were no new reports
of intensifying price pressures at the retail level, and one contact indicated that fuel surcharges
on some transportation services were discontinued because of moderating oil prices. Construction/real estate. Overall construction and real estate activity remained
relatively weak through October and mid-November. On the residential side, sales of both new

 VII-2 and existing homes were reportedly softer than a year earlier. Contacts reported that sales of lower-priced homes were more resilient than higher-priced homes, due primarily to lower interest rates. Builders' expectations for the near term appeared to be mixed. In some areas, builders were concerned that housing inventories were too low. In others, builders who earlier in the year were anxious to sign contracts to secure scarce home sites with developers, were seeking to get out of these contracts in November. Nonresidential activity was nearly universally soft. Office vacancies continued to rise in most areas and rents were reported to have softened further. The large inventory of sublease space on the market forced landlords to become more flexible in traditional lease agreements. Hotel occupancy rates remained below a year ago, which kept downward pressure on room rates. There were scattered concerns that strong big-box retail development may have outpaced demand in recent months. Manufacturing. Manufacturing activity softened in October and November, as production and new orders in many industries continued to weaken. However, spurred by heavy incentives, light vehicle sales nationwide topped 21 million units (seasonally adjusted annual rate) in October, a near record month for the industry. Despite extended incentives, sales slowed notably in November and were expected to ease further in December. Many analysts believed
that strong sales in the fourth quarter of this year would result in weaker sales next year.
Production of heavy equipment, including trucks, slipped further as new orders remained weak. One contact suggested that equipment dealers were "spooked" and continued to draw down
inventories. Businesses also continued to work down steel inventories. With steel prices still
well below a year earlier, one industry analyst argued that the industry was near bankruptcy. A
machine tool contact also noted further softening, but this firm had seen an increase in requests
for quotes. Demand for telecommunications and other high-tech equipment remained very weak,
with one contact noting that businesses were very cautious and reluctant to spend money. Banking/finance. Overall lending activity remained sluggish, despite very strong
mortgage refinancing activity. Mortgage interest rates dipped to new lows in late October/early
November, spurring record levels of refinancing activity, according to contacts. Bankers noted
that many consumers were taking this opportunity to consolidate loans, resulting in relatively
weaker demand for other types of household loans such as home-equity, personal, and credit card

 VII-3
loans. Lenders also reported that demand for new mortgage originations was fairly soft.
Consumer credit quality continued to deteriorate with delinquencies rising across loan categories,
and personal bankruptcies were said to be increasing as well. Insurance companies noted
increased demand for nearly all types of policies, particularly life insurance, following the September .11 tragedies. On balance, business loan demand remained soft. One banker noted
slightly increased consolidation activity in some manufacturing industries. In general, however,
loan demand was being held down by businesses' reluctance to expand. Bankers credited low
interest rates with keeping some companies profitable, but overall business loan quality
continued to deteriorate, with one lender suggesting that most of the difficulties were
concentrated in large corporations. Labor markets. Labor markets continued to slacken through mid-November, with
weakness in nearly all industries and occupations. Initial unemployment insurance claims
remained well above year-ago levels in all District states, as did continuing claims. In addition
to furloughing workers, firms were also seeking to cut labor costs by eliminating or significantly
curtailing employee training and related travel. After struggling in recent years to find qualified
help, one company was offering some workers sabbaticals (at substantially lower pay) in hopes
of still having them on its payroll when business eventually picks up. Retailers reported greater
success in meeting their more modest holiday staffing needs than in recent years. A national
survey showed that first quarter 2002 hiring plans of employers in the Midwest were the lowest
since the early 1980s. Especially weak hiring was expected for manufacturing industries. There
were no new reports of intensifying pressure on wages or other employment costs. Agriculture. The soybean and corn harvests were nearly complete by mid-November.
The remaining harvest in the northern portions of the District, while lagging behind that of recent
years, was progressing rapidly in unseasonably favorable weather conditions. Corn and soybean
prices at the farm gate remained below year-ago levels as of mid-November, but had moved up
modestly from a month earlier. Beef and pork prices continued to weaken from both month- and
year-ago levels. Milk prices remained high by recent standards, although the October average
slipped from the recent high in September. Milk production in the District declined again in
October, more than offsetting an aggregate increase in the 15 other major milk producing states.

 VIII-1 Eighth District - St. Louis
Summary Economic activity in the District has been buoyed by stronger than expected retail sales, although
the manufacturing sector has continued to weaken. Retail sales were generally higher in October
compared with a year earlier, with sales at or above most retailers' expectations. Sales of new
automobiles in the month were much higher than average, which dealers attribute to manufacturers'
incentives. The residential real estate sector remains relatively strong, although weakness is appearing in
some parts of the District. New housing permits, though, continue to be higher than a year earlier.
Commercial real estate markets have continued to weaken, and vacancy rates for commercial space have
risen. Total loans by small and mid-sized banks were up modestly, along with deposits. Despite heavy
rains in some parts of the District, the fall harvest of many crops is nearly complete, and the winter wheat
crop is rated as good-to-excellent.
Consumer Spending Contacts report that spending in October was slightly higher than at the same time last year.
More than one-half of the retailers surveyed noted that the increase in sales was above expectations, while
a little more than one-third felt that they were below. Toys, electronics, home furnishings, children's
apparel, and basic items were strong sellers, while jewelry, gift-type items, and tourist-related products
were moving slowly. Retailers were about evenly split between those with inventories at desired levels
and those with excess inventory. Several contacts reported that discounting and promotions would be
used to move the excess items. With the holiday season coming up, retailers are cautiously optimistic
about sales for the rest of the year: Some expect a small, single-digit increase in sales from last year,
while others expect sales to remain flat from 2000. Car dealers in the District report that sales were above average for October, following below-
average sales in August and September. Almost all contacts attribute this to financing incentives and
rebates offered by manufacturers. Because of these incentives, new car sales in October were much better
than used car sales. A few contacts saw an increase in the rate of acceptance of finance applications, but

 VIII-2
most noted no change. Dealers indicate that their optimism about future sales depends on the
continuation of manufacturers' incentives.
Manufacturing and Other Business Activity The District's manufacturing sector continues to be weak. Companies are still experiencing
difficulty generating profits because of reduced orders. Consolidation, cutbacks, and closings remain
commonplace. Affected industries include auto and tire, boat, appliances, electronic materials, clothing,
metals, chemicals, and other durable goods manufacturers. Most contacts report low consumer
confidence and a "wait and see" period. On the bright side, there are reports of steel, furniture, plastics,
and printing companies hiring, expanding, or moving into the District. Districtwide, the services sector continues to experience slow-to-no growth. To cut costs, several
contacts noted that they are reducing their advertising expenditures. The communications sector is
mixed: While still posting positive growth for long distance, wireless, and data services, contacts report
that communications companies are decreasing capital spending and are consolidating. Contacts are not
expecting much of an upturn, if any, in 2002. The travel-related service sector (airlines, travel agencies,
motels, etc.) is still experiencing reduced volume following the attacks of September 11. Contacts,
however, hope to see an increase in business during the upcoming holiday season. Although the trucking
industry continues to see less freight, the decrease in fuel prices is helping to maintain costs.
Real Estate and Construction Residential real estate sales remain mixed across the District. New homes priced below $250,000
continue to sell well in Little Rock, while Memphis realtors reported a slight decline in September
closings. Sales in Louisville are down from the same period a year ago, and a surplus of homes in the
Mississippi region is creating a buyer's market. Buyers and potential tenants for commercial real estate
are cautious in Little Rock. The Memphis industrial and warehouse market experienced a very high
absorption rate over the second quarter of 2001 and continues to offer plenty of distribution space.
However, the vacancy rate for the St. Louis market has continued to rise through the end of the third
quarter, as it had since the beginning of the year.

 VIII-3 Residential construction opportunities continue to expand through most of the District as year-to-
date permit levels are higher than a year earlier. In contrast, the District's commercial construction
opportunities are generally diminishing, although exceptions include the areas of western Arkansas and
Memphis, where this activity remains strong. In response, contractors in some portions of the District are
moving from industrial projects to local government projects.
Banking and Finance Total loans outstanding at a sample of small and mid-sized District banks were up modestly,
increasing by 1.7 percent between mid-August and mid-October. This stems primarily from a 70 percent
increase in interbank lending. Contacts have also reported a modest increase in real estate loans of about 1.4 percent, while commercial and industrial loans have declined modestly over the period-by about 0.5
percent. At the same time, total deposits at these banks were approximately 1.7 percent higher. Contacts in Little Rock have also reported a strong demand for mortgage refinancing, residential
lending, and car loans. Actual earnings are between 5 and 15 percent below projected earnings for banks
in west Tennessee. Contacted banks in northeastern Mississippi have reported good profits, but are
experiencing greater loan delinquencies and recording more bankruptcies.
Agriculture and Natural Resources The fall harvest of corn, soybean, cotton, and rice crops is nearly complete throughout the
District, despite being delayed by several episodes of heavy rain during mid-to-late October. Reports
indicate that October was the second, third, and seventh wettest on record in Indiana, Illinois and
Kentucky, respectively. Because of the availability of storage space and the long harvest period, no grain
transportation difficulties have occurred. While rainfall delayed the planting of the final winter wheat
crop, it aided the planted crop's germination and growth and replenished moisture deficits. On average,
the District winter wheat crop is rated as being in good-to-excellent condition.

 IX-1 NINTH DISTRICT--MINNEAPOLIS
Economic activity in the Ninth District decreased in late October and early November.
Commercial real estate, agriculture, energy and mining are down. Manufacturing, tourism
and consumer spending are down slightly, although auto sales are strong. Labor markets
weakened as a result of additional layoff announcements. Overall wages and prices are
stable, with the exception of increases in health care and property insurance rates and
decreases in cattle hide prices.
Construction and Real Estate
Commercial construction is slower than a year ago. The value of commercial construction
projects in October was lower than last year in Billings, Mont., and Sioux Falls, S.D.,
according to city officials. A commercial real estate consultant reported that the office
vacancy rate in downtown St. Paul recently increased to 8.1 percent compared with 5.5
percent a year ago. Expansion plans at the Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport were
delayed during September and October, affecting contractors who would have bid on more
than 50 projects. However, a Minneapolis area commercial construction company reported
continued profits and a steady workload in the fourth quarter. Homebuilding is slightly higher than a year ago in several parts of the district.
The value of permits in October was higher than a year ago in Billings and Sioux Falls,
while the number of permits was slightly higher in Minneapolis-St. Paul. However,
October sales of existing homes in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area were down 3 percent
compared with last year.
Consumer Spending and Tourism
Retail sales are generally slower, except for strong auto sales. A Minnesota-based leather
products retailer reported that same-store sales in October were down 5 percent compared
with last year. An economic development official noted that October retail sales were
down from a year ago in Sioux Falls. A Helena branch director said that merchants are
anticipating slower Christmas sales compared with last year. In contrast, a major
Minneapolis-based department store retailer reported that overall same-store sales in
October were up 2 percent compared with a year earlier. A Montana mall manager noted
above-average traffic in October compared with last year.

 IX-2 Auto dealers reported that new car sales reached high levels. October new car sales
in the Dakotas increased from September due to manufacturer incentives, according to
auto dealer association representatives. One representative described October as a "barn-
burner," but is concerned about future sales. A Minnesota dealership noted that buying
activity in November is at a more traditional rate following October's frenzied pace. Tourism activity is down for fly destinations and generally level for drive
destinations. A bank director reported that recent air traffic at a central Montana airport is
at a 20-year low. Hotel occupancy in St. Paul was off about 10 percent in October
compared with a year ago, according to a convention and visitors bureau representative.
Fall tourism was down slightly in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan, but inquiries for
winter tourism activity are solid, according to an official. Tourism activity in the Black
Hills area of South Dakota was up about 5 percent in October compared with last year.
Manufacturing
Overall manufacturing activity is down slightly. An October survey of purchasing
managers by Creighton University indicated small decreases in manufacturing activity in
Minnesota and North Dakota and increased activity in South Dakota. A Minnesota maker
of heating and cooling systems will close, and a northwestern Wisconsin manufacturer of
napkin-folding machinery is reducing output. A Montana mill that manufactures studs for
housing is shutting down for two weeks, and a northwestern Wisconsin wood products
plant has temporarily closed. In addition, preliminary results of the Ninth District's
annual (November) business conditions survey reveal that two of three manufacturers are
pessimistic about their community's economy. However, a surgical equipment
manufacturer in the Upper Peninsula plans to expand production and employment.
Mining and Energy
Activity in the energy and mining sectors is down. Early November district oil and
natural gas exploration and production levels are behind the levels of early October. A
large northern Minnesota iron ore mine reduced production starting in mid-October due
to weak orders by steel producers; an iron ore mine in the Upper Peninsula plans to
decrease output in January. In addition, a Montana platinum mine reduced production.
Agriculture
Agricultural conditions have deteriorated. "Cattle prices have dropped about 10 percent
over the last month, which will adversely affect many of our customers' ability to repay

 IX-3
loans," reported a Montana lender in the Minneapolis Fed's third quarter (November)
agricultural conditions survey. The preliminary results of the survey indicate poor
financial performance, as half the respondents reported that agricultural customers had
below-normal profits over the past three months, while only 8 percent reported above-
normal profits. In addition, agricultural bankers reported that 27 percent of their farm
customers are at their debt limit.
Employment, Wages and Prices
Additional layoffs have been announced since the last report. In early November an
HMO in Minnesota reported plans to lay off about 230 employees, and a company that
provides materials-management products to semiconductor firms plans to reduce staff
positions by 100. As a result of a major acquisition, a packaged-food company will
eliminate about 300 jobs. A faith-based association recently announced plans to move its
Minneapolis headquarters to a different state, affecting 440 employees. A manufacturer
in southwestern Wisconsin laid off 100 workers in October, but recently called 15 back to
work. Initial Minnesota unemployment claims increased 91 percent in October compared
with a year ago. In contrast, a health insurance company plans to expand operations in northern
Minnesota, adding about 200 jobs. A home mortgage company will add 100 jobs in
Minneapolis due in part to increased refinancing activity. Increases in wages and salaries are moderate. Only 10 percent of respondents to a
survey of manufacturers in Minnesota, Wisconsin and the Dakotas reported higher wages
in October, down from 35 percent a year ago. According to preliminary results of the
Minneapolis Fed's business conditions survey, almost 95 percent of respondents (up from
67 percent a year ago) expect wages to increase no more than 3 percent in 2002. Price changes are modest, except for notable decreases in cattle hides and
increases in health care and property insurance rates. Prices for cattle hides and skins
dropped almost 8 percent in October compared with a month earlier. Health care costs for
employers in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area are expected to finish the year up 7.1 percent
compared with the previous year, according to a consulting firm. Several bank directors
reported recent significant increases in property insurance rates. According to the October
survey of manufacturers in Minnesota, Wisconsin and the Dakotas, 19 percent of
respondents reported recent increases in product prices, down from 28 percent a year ago.

 TENTH DISTRICT - KANSAS CITY Overview. The Tenth District economy remained generally sluggish in late October and early
November, though not all signs were negative. Manufacturing activity continued to languish, commercial real estate activity weakened, and energy activity slowed further. However, auto sales surged in most of the
district due to consumer incentives, and retail sales and housing activity rebounded somewhat from the
dropoff following the terrorist attacks. In the farm economy, a dry autumn limited forage supplies and raised
concerns about soil moisture going into winter. District labor markets continued to ease, as further job cuts
took effect. Wage pressures also remained subdued. Price discounting at many stores held retail prices in
check, and prices for finished factory goods edged lower due to weak demand. Prices for most construction
and manufacturing materials were stable. Retail Sales. Retail sales improved somewhat in late October and early November but remained
close to year-ago levels in most areas. Large discount stores continued to enjoy the strongest sales. Most
retailers were cautiously optimistic heading into the holiday shopping season, saying they expected to match
or slightly exceed last year's sales numbers. Home improvement stores were especially upbeat. Some
retailers, however, reported they were aggressively managing inventories to avoid being stuck with excess
stocks in January. Motor vehicle sales were very strong across the district due to attractive financing
packages. However, dealers expect overall vehicle sales to weaken considerably once the consumer
incentives come to an end. Some rental car companies reported scaling back new car purchases and selling
off some of their used vehicles due to cutbacks in air travel. Manufacturing. District factory activity was flat in late October and early November after declining
substantially over the summer. A similar percentage of firms as in the previous survey reported lower
production, shipments, and new orders compared with a year ago. However, more manufacturers were
shedding workers than in recent months, as further layoffs were announced at a wide variety of firms. Food
processing remained an exception to the slowing trend, with output and employment generally holding steady.

 X-2 Expectations for future activity remained subdued, and firms continued to hold back on capital spending
projects. Most firms continued to trim inventories and expect to trim further in coming months. No significant shortages of materials were reported, and supplier delivery times declined for some products. Real Estate and Construction. Residential construction activity rebounded somewhat from the
dropoff following the terrorist attacks, while commercial real estate markets weakened further. Compared to a year ago, both home sales and housing starts were up solidly in Oklahoma and New Mexico. Housing activity in most of the rest of the district remained below year-ago levels, but somewhat less so than in the
previous survey. Sales of high-end homes remained particularly weak throughout the district. Commercial
real estate activity continued to decline, as white-collar layoffs and uncertainty about the economic outlook
further reduced the demand for office space. High office vacancy rates were of particular concern in areas of
suburban Denver hard hit by high-tech layoffs. New office construction has also slowed in most cities since
the summer. Banking. Bankers report that loans decreased and deposits held steady since the last survey,
reducing loan-deposit ratios. Demand fell for all loan categories except home mortgages, which benefited
from strong refinancing activity. On the deposit side, increases in demand deposits, NOW accounts, and
money market deposit accounts were offset by declines in large CDs. Almost all respondent banks reduced
their prime lending rates and consumer lending rates since the last survey. Lending standards were
unchanged. Energy. Energy activity in the district fell considerably in late October and early November. By
mid-November, the region's count of active oil and gas drilling rigs was down roughly a third from the 14-
year high established in July. The slowdown in drilling activity is now evident in all oil and gas producing
areas of the district, after starting out in marginal fields only. District sources report, however, that they
expect the declines in activity to be short-lived, with energy prices stabilizing in 2002. Agriculture. District corn and soybean yields were average or better, except in southern parts of the
district where dry summer weather hurt the crops. Rain came in time for planting of the district's winter

 X-3 wheat crop, but a dry autumn has raised some concerns about soil moisture going into winter. Dry conditions have also limited forage supplies in some areas, encouraging ranchers in those areas to send more cattle to market despite weaker prices this fall. Otherwise, cattle producers are holding off on marketings until prices recover. District bankers indicate that small business activity in rural areas is slower than a year ago. Wages and Prices. District labor markets continued to ease in late October and early November, as
previously announced layoffs went into effect and firms cut back on new hiring. The rate of new layoff announcements subsided somewhat from September but remained much higher than earlier in the year.
Employers were having few problems hiring most kinds of workers, although shortages persisted for nurses
and some skilled building trades. In a change from the previous survey, retailers now expect to hire a similar
number of seasonal workers as in previous years. Wage pressures remained subdued, and many firms
reported they would not be giving holiday bonuses this year. Due to rising health care costs, some firms were
trimming medical and other benefits. Retail prices remained basically flat, although some stores continued to
lower prices to clear excess inventory. Most store managers expect similar prices through the remainder of
the year. In the manufacturing sector, materials prices were steady while finished-good prices continued to
edge down, a trend that most firms expect to continue. Builders in some areas reported substantial declines in
lumber prices, but prices for most other construction materials were largely unchanged and are expected to
remain flat in coming months.

 XI-1 ELEVENTH DISTRICT-DALLAS Eleventh District economic activity slowed somewhat from mid-October to mid-November.
Many contacts mentioned that economic uncertainty is discouraging business and consumer
spending. Some contacts said they do not expect a pickup in activity until the second half of 2002
or later. Manufacturing activity declined slightly, and demand for business services continues to
slow. Retail sales continued to be well below plan for many stores. Construction and real estate
activity continued to slow, and the energy industry continued to weaken. Financial service firms
reported little change in loan demand. Rains improved agricultural conditions in some locations,
but most areas remained dry. Prices and Labor Markets. Prices are lower for many manufactured products, including
steel, paper, cement, glass and some high tech products. Further price declines are expected in the
near future for some products. Cost pressures were also lower, with many industries reporting
lower prices for utilities, fuel and shipping. As of mid-November, crude oil inventories were up 3
percent since September 11th,and contacts say markets remain concerned that demand may fall
further. Heating oil inventories were up 4 percent. The retail price of gasoline fell over 25 cents at
the pump since the last Beige Book, to the lowest level of the last two years. Gasoline inventories
were up 6 percent. Labor markets loosened significantly, and contacts say wage pressures have slackened for
the first time in a long time. Many firms say they are not hiring, and several retailers say they
expect to hire fewer extra holiday workers. Layoffs and early retirement incentives continued in the
transportation and telecommunications industries, where some firms have reduced executive pay. Manufacturing. Overall manufacturing activity declined slightly. Paper producers reported
little change in sales in late October and early November, which are down significantly from a year
ago. Apparel manufacturers reported strong sales to discount stores, but slowing sales to other
vendors. Only food manufacturers reported stronger than expected demand. Most high-tech manufacturers said that, in early November, sales had flattened following
some moderate declines after September 11th.The weakening economy and increased uncertainty
since the terrorist attacks have pushed back the expected recovery of their industry from the first
quarter to the third quarter of 2002. While most high-tech firms continued to cut jobs, the rate of
layoffs is slowing. Selling prices are weak, but several firms noted that prices for memory chips
are firming. Most respondents said inventories are very lean. Telecommunications firms said

 XI-2 demand continued to decline over the past month, down 20 percent to 30 percent. One contact said demand is down 80 percent from this time last year. Most construction-related manufacturers, including brick and lumber, reported a drop in demand between mid-October and mid-November, mostly due to slower home building. New orders for cement also declined, although the industry continues to supply projects delayed by rain in August and September. Glass sales were "decent" according to contacts who expect sales to slow with home building. Demand for primary and fabricated metals fell, partly due to declining energy activity. Production of metals has been unchanged, however, because manufacturers have been
reducing backlogs. One contact said a lot of the existing activity is related to government contracts. Refiners increased output seasonally on the Gulf Coast in October. Margins declined slightly from moderate levels in September. Petrochemical producers reported little change in
activity. Demand remains weak, but there was some indication of a pickup in the third quarter, mostly because lower input costs had improved the international competitiveness of domestic
producers. Still, a large overhang of capacity has kept profit margins weak because any cost
savings from lower natural gas prices is being passed on to customers. Services. Service sector activity continued to slow. Only legal firms reported strong
demand for their services, particularly for bankruptcy and credit activities. Temporary service
firms say activity has slowed faster than expected. Transportation firms reported continued declines
in passenger and cargo shipping volume. The trucking industry has become more pessimistic,
expecting shipments to slow over the next three months due to slowing in home construction. Airline passenger volume remains significantly lower than the levels reported three months
ago. Business travel has decreased, with travel to Asian and European markets weakening. Airfares
have been reduced in an effort to stimulate passenger volume, but costs are up, due to stricter
security and other regulations. Retail Sales. Retail sales as of mid-November continued to be well below plan for most
stores, and contacts say profits are suffering. Sales are still strongest at stores that are perceived to
offer value and stores that are perceived as safer, such as those away from malls. Consumers
remained focused on purchases of consumables and items that are perceived as not frivolous.
Contacts say selling prices are unchanged or slightly lower, with the only cost pressures coming
from soaring property insurance and health care costs. However, one contact noted that margins
are shrinking for many suppliers and there may be a lot of pent up inflation when demand picks up.

 XI-3 Auto dealers reported record sales, fueled by zero percent financing. All contacts expressed concern that the market has been saturated, and dealers said that sales are already slowing despite
an extension of the financing incentives through mid-November. The used car market has held up surprisingly well, according to contacts, because some people do not qualify for zero percent financing. Financial Services. Financial service firms reported little change in lending demand in late October and early November. Deposit activity remained at a level somewhat higher than reported
earlier this year. Loan prepayments continued to be stronger than usual, and money received from
transfers out of brokerage accounts have accelerated. There were no reported changes to
delinquency rates or other indications of a slowdown in bank performance measures. Construction and Real Estate. Construction and real estate activity continued to slow.
Single-family builders reported a strong pick up in sales volume, spurred by low interest rates,
incentives, and price cuts. Still, cancellation rates remained high-from 20 percent to 40 percent-
compared with the rate before to September 11th.Nonresidential activity continued to decline.
Rental rates continued to fall, and there is no new construction being planned, according to contacts
who say markets are expected to get worse before they get better. Energy. Energy activity has gone from overheated to very cool in a short period of time,
according to contacts. The U.S. rig count fell in mid-November to near 1000 working rigs from 1300 in late July. Utilization rates for rigs in the Gulf of Mexico have declined to just under 60
percent from over 90 percent in the spring. As the result of weaker demand, prices for oil services
and rigs have weakened, although strong pockets of domestic activity and high levels of activity in
international markets are propping up revenues and profitability. Companies reported that they are
delaying layoffs, hoping for a quick rebound in the demand for natural gas along with the U.S.
economy. Agriculture. Rains improved agricultural conditions in some locations, but most areas
remained dry. Harvesting of remaining summer crops continued, and planting of small grains was
under way. Many areas were short on planting moisture, however, and emergence was not
expected because soil moisture was inadequate. Some replanting was under way. Range and pasture
conditions declined as dry weather continued, and supplemental feeding of livestock continued to
increase. Hay shortages were becoming more widespread. Herd reduction continued to be
necessary in some areas as a direct result of dry conditions.

 XII- 1 TWELFTH DISTRICT - SAN FRANCISCO
Summary Economic activity remained weak during the survey period of October and early
November, although signs of further deterioration in economic conditions compared with
September were limited. Prices fell for some items, largely due to discounting by retailers and
service providers, with little or no upward movement overall. Wage increases were limited.
Retail sales and travel spending picked up noticeably compared with September but, with the
exception of strong auto sales, remained weak. Manufacturing output and employment declined
further. Agricultural products were in ample supply, and some producers struggled with low
sales prices. Demand for commercial real estate declined in most areas, and residential real
estate markets cooled, although home prices generally remained firm. Loan demand fell on net,
due to weaker demand from businesses.
Wages and Prices Upward pressure on wages and consumer prices was limited during the survey period.
The prices of some items fell-most notably for energy, hotel rooms, and airline, cruise line, and
tour tickets-and contacts in most areas reported widespread discounting by retailers. Wage
increases were quite limited, with lower starting salaries reported in some areas; one respondent
in the Pacific Northwest noted a 20 percent reduction in starting salaries for high-tech workers
during the past 12 to 18 months. Contacts also provided scattered reports of salary freezes for
current employees. Although labor costs associated with health benefits rose, the rate of increase
was reduced somewhat by medical plans' increased reliance on lower-cost generic drugs.
Retail Trade and Services Consumer and travel spending were weak during the survey period, with the exception of

 XII - 2
new automobile purchases. Reports generally indicated that retail sales were several percentage
points below pre-September 11 or year-earlier levels, although substantial recovery compared
with the second half of September was noted for all areas. Sales were especially low at
restaurants and for most categories of apparel. Moreover, retailers' orders for Christmas items
and their hiring activity for the early holiday season were both below normal. The exceptions to
generally weak retail sales reports were provided in regard to large discount retailers, who saw
flat to slightly increased sales, and auto dealers, for whom favorable financing terms generated a
surge in sales. In Hawaii, retail spending reportedly was as much as 20 percent below normal,
due primarily to weak visitor arrivals rather than reduced spending by residents. In that state,
domestic visitor counts were well up from September but remained about 10 to12 percent below
year-earlier levels, while Japanese visitor counts remained stuck at 50 to 60 percent below
normal. Among signs of weak travel spending in other areas, San Diego's visitor tax revenues
were down 27 percent in October compared to a year earlier, and holiday season bookings
reportedly were weak in Arizona. Firms in the travel industry (including airports) laid off large
numbers of employees, and a Southern California respondent noted that voluntary turnover in the
travel industry was unusually low. Service providers outside the travel industry also faced weak conditions. Business was
slow for advertising, marketing, public relations, management consulting, and computer services
firms throughout the District, and these firms implemented significant job cuts. Providers of
telecommunications services, including high-speed Internet services, also faced weak demand.
Manufacturing Manufacturing activity contracted further during the survey period. High-tech
manufacturers reduced their inventories, bringing them closer to preferred levels, and

 XII - 3
semiconductor prices reportedly stabilized at very low levels. However, sales of high-tech
equipment fell and substantial layoffs continued in that sector throughout the District. Demand
for wood products fell sharply in October, and sales of other construction-related materials such
as paint and coatings reportedly were 3 to 5 percent below year-earlier levels. Apparel makers
have worked down their inventories somewhat, but production capacity was underutilized due to
weak demand. Job cuts were widespread in manufacturing, including the onset of Boeing's
extensive planned cuts in the Seattle area and Southern California.
Agriculture and Resource-related Industries Conditions in agriculture changed little, with ample supply and low prices as dominant
factors. Demand was solid for most agricultural products, as strong sales to supermarkets
reportedly offset substantially depressed sales to the food services industry (primarily
restaurants). Growers of fruits, vegetables, and other field crops worked down inventories
somewhat, but prices remained quite low, especially for cotton. An Arizona contact reported low
prices and losses of $200 per head on beef cattle. By contrast, due to tighter supply than in past
years, the prices of grains and potatoes increased, benefiting suppliers in Idaho and the Pacific
Northwest. In California, the supply of agricultural labor shrank somewhat due to reduced net
migration from Mexico.
Real Estate and Construction Real estate markets cooled and construction activity fell in most areas of the District
during October and early November. Demand was especially weak for commercial space, with
rising vacancy rates, declining rents, and reduced construction activity evident in most areas,
especially in the previously hot markets of Seattle and the San Francisco Bay Area. A
construction industry contact from Seattle reported that his company's West Coast commercial

 XII -4
building contracts were down 30 percent compared with a year earlier, and the company recently
implemented its first major layoffs in ten years. Moreover, due to reduced travel demand, hotel
and resort construction projects have been postponed or canceled in Hawaii and California. On
the residential side, contacts provided widespread reports of price reductions for high-end
properties; prices for less expensive homes generally remained firm, although average time on
the market increased. Residential building activity fell in most areas, although the level
remained high in some places, notably Southern California and Idaho. Industry contacts
generally expect further reductions in construction activity next year, after existing project
backlogs are worked down.
Financial Institutions Loan demand fell on net during the survey period. Loan demand by businesses declined
markedly in most areas, which more than offset a surge in demand for real estate refinance loans
spurred by low interest rates. Brokerage houses and other investment firms have been struggling
with low returns and responded with a substantial number of layoffs during the survey period.

