 For use at 2:00 p.m., E.D.T. Wednesday October 15, 2014
Summary of Commentary on ____________________ Current Economic Conditions By Federal Reserve District October 2014

SUMMARY OF COMMENTARY ON CURRENT ECONOMIC CONDITIONS BY FEDERAL RESERVE DISTRICTS October 2014

TABLE OF CONTENTS
SUMMARY ......................................................................................................................... i
First District—Boston ....................................................................................................... I-1
Second District—New York ............................................................................................II-1
Third District—Philadelphia .......................................................................................... III-1
Fourth District—Cleveland ............................................................................................ IV-1
Fifth District—Richmond ............................................................................................... V-1
Sixth District—Atlanta .................................................................................................. VI-1
Seventh District—Chicago ........................................................................................... VII-1
Eighth District—St. Louis .......................................................................................... VIII-1
Ninth District—Minneapolis ......................................................................................... IX-1
Tenth District—Kansas City ........................................................................................... X-1
Eleventh District—Dallas .............................................................................................. XI-1
Twelfth District—San Francisco .................................................................................. XII-1

 i Summary*
Reports from the twelve Federal Reserve Districts generally described modest to
moderate economic growth at a pace similar to that noted in the previous Beige Book.
Moderate growth was reported by the Cleveland, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis,
Dallas, and San Francisco Districts, while modest growth was reported by the New York,
Philadelphia, Richmond, Atlanta, and Kansas City Districts. In the Boston District,
reports from business contacts painted a mixed picture of economic conditions. In
addition, several Districts noted that contacts were generally optimistic about future
activity. Most Districts reported overall growth in consumer spending that ranged from
slight to moderate, at a pace that was often similar to that reported in the previous Beige
Book. However, general merchandise retailers in New York noted that sales were weaker
on balance since the previous report. Several District reports indicated that retailers were
relatively optimistic about the remainder of the year. Meanwhile, tourism activity
remained upbeat in several areas, with some reports of higher occupancy rates and solid
advance bookings for travel and lodging. Several Districts reported that nonfinancial services grew at a moderate pace since
the previous Beige Book. Districts reporting on transportation services generally noted
growth in this sector, with a few pointing to capacity constraints in railroads, trucking, or
both. Manufacturing activity increased in most Districts since the previous Beige Book;
contacts in the Boston, Philadelphia, Atlanta, and Kansas City Districts reported positive
near-term outlooks. Residential construction and real estate activity were mixed since the previous
report. Commercial construction and real estate activity grew in most Districts. Banking
conditions continued to improve relative to the previous Beige Book. Commercial loan
volumes increased in nearly all reporting Districts. However, consumer loan demand was
mixed, and some Districts pointed to low or reduced levels of demand for refinancing.
Credit standards generally remained unchanged, and there were no reports of
deterioration in credit quality.
* Prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis and based on information collected before
October 6, 2014. This document summarizes comments received from business and other contacts outside
the Federal Reserve System and is not a commentary on the views of Federal Reserve officials.

 ii Agricultural conditions were mixed since the previous Beige Book. Prices for
some crops declined, driven in part by very strong realized or anticipated production.
These lower prices for some agricultural commodities were seen as weighing on
producers’ incomes, but as benefiting those using the commodities as inputs. In the
energy sector, coal production was mixed and oil and natural gas production generally
increased from already-high levels. Employment continued to expand at about the same pace as that reported in the
previous Beige Book. Most Districts reported that some employers had difficulty finding
qualified workers for certain positions. A number of Districts characterized overall wage
growth as modest, but reported upward wage pressures for particular industries and
occupations, such as skilled labor in construction and manufacturing. Consistent with the previous Beige Book, price pressures remained subdued, with
Districts reporting little to no change in price levels or modest increases. Firms generally
reported that input prices were unchanged or up slightly.
Consumer Spending and Tourism
Most Districts described growth in consumer spending as slight to moderate, and at a
pace roughly similar to that reported in the previous Beige Book. In particular, the
Boston, Richmond, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts
reported moderate growth; Philadelphia reported only slight growth in non-auto retail
sales, and retailers in the Atlanta and San Francisco Districts also cited a slight
improvement in sales. General merchandise sales in the New York District were weaker
on balance since the previous report. Boston, New York, and Chicago reported that
inventories were at desired levels. In Philadelphia, many retailers were avoiding the need
for deeper discounting; however, New York and Cleveland reported that some contacts
were running more promotions than usual. Boston, Philadelphia, Chicago, Kansas City,
Dallas, and San Francisco indicated that retail contacts were relatively optimistic about
the remainder of the year. In Chicago and Dallas, retailers were expecting that sales
during the upcoming holiday shopping season would be up slightly from a year earlier. Growth in auto sales varied across Districts, but was generally positive. In the
New York District auto dealers reported that sales were steady to slightly stronger, while
sales increased modestly in the Kansas City District. Auto dealers continued to report
strong growth in the Philadelphia District. Lower gas prices spurred sales of larger

 iii
vehicles in the Chicago District. Cleveland reported that new auto sales were down
slightly in August from a year ago, but year-to-date sales were higher than the same
period last year. Cleveland and Kansas City also reported solid sales of larger vehicles,
such as light trucks and SUVs. In the Kansas City District, auto inventories fell; in
Cleveland, inventory reports were mixed. Dallas reported that contacts were satisfied
with their inventory levels. Philadelphia, Kansas City, and Dallas noted that dealers were
optimistic about sales prospects for the rest of the year. Tourism activity was relatively solid in several areas, with upbeat reports from the
Boston, New York, Richmond, Atlanta, and Minneapolis Districts. In the Kansas City
District, tourism fell from the previous month but was up strongly from a year ago.
Growth was modest in Philadelphia. Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Atlanta, and San
Francisco reported higher hotel occupancy rates in at least some parts of their Districts.
Boston noted that restaurant revenues increased relative to a year ago. Advance bookings
for travel and lodging were strong in the Philadelphia, Richmond, and Minneapolis
Districts. In the Atlanta District, hospitality contacts maintained a positive outlook for the
remainder of 2014 and the beginning of 2015.
Nonfinancial Services
A number of Districts reported that activity in the nonfinancial services sector advanced
since the previous Beige Book. The Boston District reported generally higher demand for
consulting and advertising services. Philadelphia noted that over three-fourths of all
service-sector contacts reported expectations that growth trends will remain positive over
the next six months. Richmond reported that technology firms and engineering
companies noted stronger revenue growth; Dallas indicated that demand for accounting
services rose further from an already-high level; and Dallas and San Francisco noted that
demand for legal services picked up in some areas. Staffing services increased in many
Districts, including New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, and Dallas.
Philadelphia indicated that staffing requests increased for both temporary and permanent
positions. A contact from a staffing firm in the Chicago District reported strong orders
but noted that improving labor market conditions were leading to increased difficulties in
finding qualified workers. Districts reporting on transportation services generally noted growth since the
previous report, with a few pointing to capacity constraints in railroads, trucking, or both.

 iv
Atlanta reported increased railroad shipments and strong trucking freight demand.
Contacts at trucking firms and railroads in the Cleveland District noted that insufficient
capacity is a major issue that is currently confronting the industry. In the Minneapolis
District, capacity constraints in freight rail have increased demand for trucking services
and led to increased stockpiles at some iron ore production facilities. A trucking firm in
the Kansas City District cited supply chain disruptions and new regulations as having
slowed freight traffic. Dallas noted that air cargo volumes continued their upward trend,
and Richmond indicated that activity remains strong at District ports. St. Louis reported
some expansion plans for freight firms.
Manufacturing
Manufacturing activity increased in most Districts since the previous Beige Book.
However, New York noted that manufacturing growth had stalled, and Boston indicated
that their contacts cited weaker results than in the past few reports. The outlook for
manufacturing was positive in a number of Districts. Within manufacturing, growth was reported across a broad range of products.
Cleveland, Chicago, and San Francisco noted increased steel demand. The Chicago and
St. Louis Districts noted strength in the aerospace sector; however, San Francisco
reported that aerospace and defense capacity utilization declined. Demand for
construction materials or equipment increased in Philadelphia, Cleveland, Chicago, and
St. Louis. Manufacturers reported continued demand from the energy sector in the
Philadelphia and Cleveland Districts. Richmond and San Francisco noted strong demand
for medical equipment. San Francisco reported that worldwide semiconductor sales were
up markedly over the previous year. In contrast, a food producer in the Richmond District
said that demand was flat; St. Louis and Minneapolis reported layoffs or plant closures by
food producers; and Kansas City noted slower activity at some food processing plants.
Chicago reported weaker demand for agricultural and mining equipment.
Real Estate and Construction
Reports on residential construction and real estate activity were mixed. New York noted
that single-family construction was sluggish in some areas, but that multifamily
construction increased. Philadelphia reported only slight growth in home construction. In
August, single-family construction starts in the Cleveland District reached their highest
level so far this year, though the number of starts year-to-date remained slightly lower

 v
than last year. Richmond noted that residential construction across the District increased
slightly for custom homes. Atlanta reported that multifamily construction continued to
increase across much of the District, while Chicago indicated that both single- and multi-
family construction continued to expand. Residential real estate contacts in the Atlanta
District indicated that existing home sales and prices remained ahead of last year’s levels
and inventory levels were down from a year ago. Chicago noted that home sales were
somewhat lower, and growth in home prices and residential rents slowed. San Francisco
reported that sales of single-family homes were stable since the previous report. Commercial construction and real estate activity grew in most Districts.
Richmond, St. Louis, and San Francisco reported increased commercial construction,
industrial construction, or both. Cleveland noted that a majority of commercial
contractors saw increased construction activity relative to a year ago. Commercial
contractors in the Atlanta District saw an increase in construction activity across many
property types. In Minneapolis, however, commercial construction activity declined.
Richmond reported that commercial real estate activity improved modestly over the past
several weeks. The New York District noted that the New York City office market
continued to strengthen. Atlanta noted that many commercial brokers saw growth in
activity. Chicago noted that commercial real estate activity continued to expand. Kansas
City indicated that commercial vacancy rates declined and absorption and sales increased.
Boston noted that commercial real estate fundamentals are either holding steady or
improving.
Banking and Finance
In most Districts, banking conditions continued to improve relative to the previous Beige
Book, with net increases in loan volumes reported in a number of Districts. Since the previous Beige Book, New York reported that consumer loan demand
had leveled off, Cleveland reported that consumer lending was stable, and Atlanta,
St. Louis, and Kansas City noted that consumer loan demand increased. Chicago reported
strong growth in auto lending. New York reported decreased demand for loan
refinancing, Philadelphia noted negligible demand for refinancing, and Richmond
reported that refinancing demand was mostly unchanged, but down in some areas. Demand for business credit expanded since the previous Beige Book. New York
reported increased demand for commercial mortgages. Philadelphia noted increased loan

 vi
volume for commercial and industrial loans. Cleveland, Atlanta, St. Louis, and San
Francisco noted increased commercial loan demand. Chicago noted that business demand
for equipment and commercial real estate financing rose. Financing for mergers and
acquisitions as well as for capital expenditures rose in the Dallas District. Kansas City
noted slight increases in commercial and agricultural lending. There were no reports of deterioration in credit quality. New York reported that
delinquency rates continued to decline, particularly for commercial loans and mortgages.
Philadelphia banking contacts described steady improvement in credit quality, and San
Francisco noted that asset quality has improved since the previous report. Most bankers
in the Kansas City District reported that loan quality was unchanged compared with a
year ago. Credit standards generally remained unchanged since the previous Beige Book.
Cleveland noted that no changes were made to loan-application standards during the past
six weeks, but lenders slightly relaxed terms and conditions. Some contacts in the
Philadelphia District said that heated competition for loans was resulting in a slight rise in
credit risks.
Agriculture and Natural Resources
Prices for many crops continued to decline since the previous Beige Book, driven in part
by very strong realized or anticipated crop yields. This higher production is expected to
offset some of the effect of lower prices on farm incomes. Chicago, St. Louis, and Kansas
City reported very good crop conditions at the beginning of the harvest; additionally,
Chicago and Minneapolis expect large corn and soybean harvests. Drought conditions
persisted in parts of the Atlanta, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts. Atlanta, Chicago,
Minneapolis, and Dallas noted that livestock, poultry, and dairy producers had benefited
from increased output prices and lower feed costs. Since the previous Beige Book, oil exploration activity increased in the
Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts. Richmond and Minneapolis noted
increases in natural gas production, and San Francisco reported increased natural gas and
electricity sales to manufacturers. Compared with a year earlier, coal production was flat
in Cleveland, mixed in Richmond, and increased in St. Louis. Recent decreases in oil
prices were reported by Atlanta and Kansas City; natural gas price decreases were

 vii
reported by Cleveland, Richmond, and Kansas City. Iron ore production in the
Minneapolis District held steady since the previous report.
Employment, Wages, and Prices
The pace of employment growth was about the same as that reported in the previous
Beige Book. Most Districts reported that some employers had difficulty finding qualified
workers for certain positions. In particular, manufacturers in the Boston District said that
they continue to look for machinists; Chicago noted that difficulties in finding skilled
labor have often delayed construction projects; and in the Dallas District a shortage of
workers in heavy construction and engineering was causing some delays in projects for
the petrochemical industry. Contacts in Richmond, Minneapolis, and Kansas City noted
difficulty in filling openings for truck drivers. A number of Districts characterized wage growth as modest, though several also
reported upward wage pressures for particular industries and occupations, such as skilled
labor in construction and manufacturing. Cleveland, Richmond, and Kansas City noted
upward wage pressures for transportation workers; Richmond also reported upward wage
pressures for skilled engineers, managers, information technology professionals, and
bankers. San Francisco noted that software developers were receiving above-average
wage increases. New York reported that workers were more frequently leaving jobs for
higher pay, while a contact in the St. Louis District noted increased turnover of skilled
employees who were switching to higher-paying jobs. Consistent with the previous Beige Book, overall price pressures remained
subdued, with Districts reporting little to no change in price levels or modest increases.
Firms generally reported that input prices were unchanged or up slightly. Districts noted
that several commodity prices fell since the previous report, although cattle, hog, and
dairy prices remained at elevated levels. New York reported that cost pressures have
largely subsided among manufacturers, but remained fairly widespread among service
firms. Firms in the Atlanta District indicated that their pricing power remained relatively
weak. However, in Chicago, a number of manufacturers expected to be able to raise
prices, especially in the auto industry. St. Louis reported that some retail dealers of
construction materials increased prices. Minneapolis noted that metals prices decreased
somewhat since the previous report. Restaurant menu prices in Kansas City rose more

 viii
slowly than in previous surveys; San Francisco reported that restaurant prices increased
slightly in July and August.

 I-1 FIRST DISTRICT – BOSTON Reports from business contacts paint a mixed picture of economic conditions in the First District.
Manufacturers cite weaker results than in the last few reports and retailers are seeing flat to moderately
increasing sales, while the tourist sector continues to be robust. Results from the consulting and
advertising sector are generally quite positive. Commercial real estate markets are level or improving in
the region, while residential real estate contacts mostly report declines in sales and prices, but ongoing
cautious optimism. Firms are not generally hiring, on net, but those with substantial increases in
business—one manufacturer and several in consulting and advertising—are raising their headcounts.
Price pressures remain minimal according to contacts, with manufacturers and retailers noting only
selective and modest price increases.
Retail and Tourism Retail contacts for this round report comparable-store sales that are flat or increasing year-over-
year; those with increases cite mid-to-high single digit growth from a year earlier. Spending is strong for
furniture, household items, leisure and sporting goods, and apparel. Inventories are either “healthy,”
slightly up, or slightly down, depending on the contact. Respondents cite some modest price increases (2
percent to 3 percent) on certain items and anticipate this trend will continue. For the rest of the year,
contacts continue to predict low-to-mid single-digit sales increases on an annual basis, with an outlook for
the U.S. economy that ranges from “sideways growth” to “an optimistic outlook for steady growth.” The Boston-area economy continues to enjoy a strong boost from travel-related spending. In
August 2014, hotel occupancy rates were up 12 percent year-over-year, while average nightly room rates
were up almost 18 percent from August 2013. Through August, restaurant revenues were up 3.5 percent
year-over-year, while attendance at museums and other attractions was up 2.2 percent. Though the results
are not yet in for September, advance activity was strong for both September and October, traditionally
the peak travel months. The hotel industry is predicting a 7 percent revenue increase for 2015 over 2014,
with most of this growth reflecting rising room rates.
Manufacturing and Related Services Of the 11 manufacturing firms contacted this cycle, five report some weakness in sales, a much
higher number than in any recent cycle. The reasons cited for the weakness are varied. A manufacturer of
industrial motors and brakes says that August was typically slow but that sales had not bounced back in
September as much as they usually do, with orders down about 5 percent year-on-year. A furniture maker
cites a 10 percent dropoff in sales during the winter which continued through the summer. A firm making
advertising products says that sales have been declining 10 percent per year for a while. One contact expresses caution about an “order bubble” in commercial aviation, an industry that
has generally been a robust source of growth in the region. According to the contact, airlines order jet
planes to make sure that if they need them, they have a slot in the queue; the worry is that at some point
there could be a wave of cancellations. None of our contacts reports excessive pricing pressure from suppliers or excessive pushback on
price increases from customers. One contact says it is “always a battle,” albeit successful, to convince
customers to accept price increases. None of our contacts is laying off, but only one reports large hiring

 I-2
increases. A contact in the media business says they are “very careful with headcount.” The one firm to
report substantial hiring, a biotech firm, cites rising costs of hiring skilled workers in New England. As
usual, several contacts say they are always looking for workers with particular manufacturing skills, such
as machinists. Our contacts report no significant changes in inventories. Most firms cite increased capital
spending more or less in line with their plans; only the biotech firm reports major increases. In general, the manufacturing outlook is positive but very guarded. Two firms, the manufacturer
of motors and brakes and a firm in the textile and chemical businesses, say that they are waiting to see
how things play out in the fall. Selected Business Services Most contacts report that demand for consulting and advertising is up from a year ago, although
the pace of growth varies across sectors and firms. Government and strategy consultants note a strong
uptick in requests for proposals and eagerly await contract award decisions. A high-end economic
consulting firm is still overwhelmed with work, mostly related to mortgage-backed securities (MBS)
litigation, and at 12 percent growth year-over-year is now beyond capacity. An advertising merchandise
firm is slightly outpacing the 5 percent growth they estimate the industry is experiencing on average; they
are seeing less pushback on prices from their large clients and cite an increase in large orders. In
healthcare consulting, contacted firms’ revenues range from flat to up 10 percent from a year ago. Prices are increasing in a bimodal fashion for contacts in consulting: Firms with relatively flat
revenue are holding price structures constant for now, even as they bid on more jobs and anticipate
winning their “usual” fraction; those whose business is booming are raising prices somewhat, taking on
new personnel, raising wages, and experiencing increased compliance costs, and revenue growth is still
outstripping costs. An advertising materials firm that has exhibited steady growth is keeping to its 5
percent increase in staff for this year, while the better-faring healthcare consulting firms are increasing
employment in the 6 percent range. These firms are generally filling client-facing salesperson roles with
some ease, and developer and e-commerce related roles with greater difficulty. All contacts are hopeful about the future; they say that macroeconomic conditions are improving.
Even the slower-growing firms see increases in demand and additional deals in the pipeline, and estimates
for next year’s growth range from 5 percent to 15 percent. The government and strategy consulting
contacts’ main concern is that they secure a normal percentage of the contracts for which they are
contending. The business strategy contact notes strong business in the Northeast, but is concerned over a
lack of new businesses being formed. The economic analysis firm continues to expect MBS-related work
to dry up soon and is comfortable with the idea of throttling back growth when it happens. Healthcare
consulting contacts feel somewhat at the mercy of government healthcare reforms, but generally feel that
“the wind is at their backs” and growth will be sustained for the foreseeable future.
Commercial Real Estate Commercial real estate fundamentals are either holding steady or improving across the First
District. In Boston, contacts report that rents continue to rise in the popular Fort Point Channel area and
have even started to increase in portions of the Financial District after several flat months. Healthy
demand for office space and lack of new office construction are seen as the forces behind the latest rent

 I-3
increases in Boston, which are perceived as being in excess of increases in operating costs. Office leasing
is also reportedly strong in Boston’s inner suburbs, such as Waltham and Burlington. Construction
activity in greater Boston is reportedly steady, but at a high level, with an emphasis on mixed use and
“adaptive reuse” of existing structures. Labor shortages and associated high labor costs are seen as
potential constraints on the growth of construction activity moving forward, in Boston and more broadly
within Massachusetts. In Providence, leasing activity picked up modestly in both the office and industrial
sectors since the previous report and industrial space remains in short supply in relation to demand. In
greater Portland, the retail sector continues to grow, resulting in higher rental rates downtown and
increased construction of small-scale retail outlets in surrounding areas. Maine’s hospitality sector also
remains strong, with better-than-expected occupancy rates at recently opened hotels in Portland and new
hotels under construction around the state. In Hartford, leasing volume is unchanged in recent weeks and
there is no significant construction activity reported. While that city’s office vacancy rate has declined
slightly in recent months, there has been no noticeable increase in asking rents. Also in greater Hartford,
investment sales demand remains healthy and the number of properties being placed for sale is on the rise.
A similar increase in supply of buildings for sale is reported for greater Boston, and contacts in both cities
infer that a growing number of owners believe that prices are at or near their peak, borrowing costs are
near their trough, or both. Contacts also report that demand for Boston’s commercial real estate,
especially from foreign buyers, remains strong and is expected to continue so for the foreseeable future. Contacts are either cautiously optimistic (as in Hartford and Providence) or optimistic (Boston
and Portland) that commercial real estate fundamentals will continue to improve. In both Providence and
Hartford, contacts note that uncertainty over the outcomes of upcoming state and/or local elections is
contributing to uncertainty in the local economic outlook.
Residential Real Estate Closed sales of both single family homes and condominiums declined in August compared with a
year earlier in at least four of the New England states. In Maine, by contrast, sales of single family homes
increased as condominium sales decreased. Information for New Hampshire is not available. The median
sales price also declined relative to August of last year for single family homes and condominiums in at
least four states. The exception is Massachusetts, where prices for single family homes increased year-
over-year for the twenty-third consecutive month and condominium prices rose for the fifteenth
consecutive month. Massachusetts contacts say the sales decline and price increases are driven primarily
by a shortage of inventory, as demand is steady; inventories have been falling on a year-over-year basis
for more than two years. Contacts say affordability is a concern: “With prices on the rise, it’s becoming
more difficult to save the down payment, especially with rents as high as they are. We are hearing that
buyers are approaching their threshold for what they are willing to pay.” In contrast, Maine is seeing
inventory increases and contacts expect to be busy in the fall market. In Connecticut and Maine, contacts
report a need for higher paying jobs in their states to help sell the inventory of non-starter homes. As one
contact in Maine stated, “We need the middle class to feel better. Right now they question what the next
few years will be like.” Notwithstanding declines in closed sales and median sales prices, residential real
estate contacts say they are cautious but optimistic.

 II-1 SECOND DISTRICT--NEW YORK Growth in the Second District’s economy has slowed to a somewhat more modest pace since
the last report. Prices of finished goods and services continue to rise at a subdued pace; cost
pressures remain fairly widespread among service firms but have largely subsided among
manufacturers. Labor market conditions have shown further signs of strengthening, except in the
manufacturing sector, where hiring activity has slowed. Contacts in most industry sectors report that
business has been steady or improving, though manufacturers report that growth has stalled in recent
weeks. General merchandise retailers report that sales were mixed but, on balance, weaker since the
previous report; auto dealers report that sales were steady to slightly stronger. Tourism activity has
continued to show strength since the last report. Housing markets have been steady or stronger, with
inventories rising to more normal levels. New York City’s commercial real estate market has
continued to strengthen moderately, and there are scattered signs of a pickup in commercial
construction. Finally, banks report that household loan demand has leveled off but that demand from
commercial borrowers continues to grow; delinquency rates continue to decline, particularly for
commercial loans and mortgages.
Consumer Spending General merchandise retailers say that sales were reasonably robust in August but mixed to
weaker in September. Two major retail chains reported that sales, which were on or ahead of plan in
August, softened noticeably in September and were below plan. Retail contacts at upstate malls
report that sales were generally flat in both August and September, with some strength noted in back-
to-school sales. Reports on inventories were mixed in September, but on balance, stocks are reported
to be at or near desired levels. Prices are mostly described as steady, though some contacts
characterize the environment as increasingly promotional. Auto dealers across upstate New York characterize sales as steady but fairly strong. Buffalo
area dealers report that that new vehicle sales continued to increase moderately in August and

 II-2
September, while sales of used vehicles remained soft. Rochester area dealers report that new
vehicle sales were flat in August and steady to up slightly in September; they note favorable market
conditions for both new and used cars. Auto dealers in both areas continue to report that both
wholesale and retail credit conditions remain in good shape. Tourism activity has remained robust since the previous report. Business at Broadway
theaters continued to show strength in August and September, with attendance up more than 10
percent from a year earlier and revenues up roughly 13 percent. Hotel occupancy rates in New York
City have remained near record levels, while room rates have risen moderately. Hotel occupancy
rates have also continued to climb in the Buffalo and Albany areas but edged back in metropolitan
Rochester. Consumer confidence in the Middle Atlantic region (NY, NJ, PA) slipped in September,
based on the Conference Board’s latest survey.
Construction and Real Estate The District’s housing markets have been steady to stronger since the last report, while
inventories have risen from unusually low levels in some areas. Rents have leveled off in Manhattan
and Brooklyn—in part reflecting extensive luxury rental development coming on line—while rents in
Queens have continued to increase briskly. New York City’s co-op and condo market was generally
steady in the third quarter. Resale prices for apartments were little changed in Manhattan but
continued to rise moderately in Brooklyn and Queens; sales volume was down more than 10 percent
from the extraordinarily high levels of a year earlier but little changed from the second quarter. Northern New Jersey’s housing market has continued to be mixed. Demand for single-family
homes has remained sluggish, and so has new single-family construction, as builders remain reluctant
to build for inventory. In contrast, a strong rental market has continued to spur multi-family
construction, especially in areas easily accessible to New York City. Housing markets in western
New York State flattened out in August and September, as both sales volume and prices leveled off.

 II-3
Multiple offers have become less common, as the inventory of available homes has increased from
low levels. New York City’s office market continued to strengthen in the third quarter: Office
availability rates declined moderately in the Midtown and Midtown South markets and fell more
noticeably in Lower Manhattan. Asking rents continued to rise and were up 5 percent to 10 percent
from a year earlier. There are a number of major commercial developments under construction in
Manhattan, and an industry contact in northern New Jersey notes that there has been somewhat of a
pickup in commercial construction there, albeit from low levels.
Other Business Activity Manufacturing firms in the District report that growth, which had been fairly robust through
the summer, has stalled since the last report. Contacts in other industry sectors, however, report that
business has been steady or expanding. Businesses generally report steady to modest increases in
their selling prices. Reports on input costs have been mixed: Although service firms continue to
report widespread increases in input prices, manufacturers generally report more that costs have
leveled off. The labor market has shown further signs of strengthening since the previous report. One
major New York City employment agency notes brisk hiring activity and characterizes labor demand
as increasingly robust—particularly for temps, workers with people skills, and especially IT workers.
A contact at another employment agency has not seen the normal seasonal slowdown in recent weeks
and characterizes the labor market as fairly good, with particularly brisk demand for HR people.
While one industry contact describes salaries as “pretty flat”, another reports upward pressure on
salaries, as people are more frequently leaving jobs for higher pay. More broadly, service-sector
firms continue to add workers at a moderate pace, though more contacts than in the last report say
they plan to expand staff in the months ahead. One major retailer expects to hire moderately more

 II-4
seasonal workers for the holidays than last year. In contrast, manufacturers say they have scaled
back both hiring activity and hiring plans.
Financial Developments Small-to-medium-sized banks in the District report increased demand for commercial
mortgages but steady demand for other types of loans and decreased demand for refinancing since
the previous report. Bankers report that credit standards were unchanged across all loan categories.
Respondents report narrowing spreads on consumer loans and residential mortgages. Banks indicate
that average deposit rates remain unchanged. Finally, bankers report ongoing declines in
delinquency rates, particularly for commercial loans and mortgages.

 III - 1 THIRD DISTRICT — PHILADELPHIA Aggregate business activity in the Third District continued to grow at a modest pace
during this current Beige Book period with very few shifts in the growth rates of specific sectors.
The most notable change in growth was reported by staffing companies, which experienced
further increases in staffing requests for temporary and permanent positions. Overall, service
sectors maintained a moderate pace of growth. Nonauto retailers continued to report slight
growth, auto dealers continued to report strong growth, and tourism activity continued at a
reportedly modest pace. Manufacturers also reported an ongoing modest rate of increase in
activity. The commercial and residential real estate sectors continued to report slight overall
growth during the current Beige Book period for construction and for leasing of existing
commercial properties; contacts reported little change for existing home sales, which continued
to be down somewhat on a year-over-year basis. Lending volumes continued to grow slowly, and credit quality continued to improve,
while contacts continued to warn of a slight rise in credit risks because of heated competition for
loans. Overall, contacts reported slight increases in wages, home prices, and general price levels
that were similar to those reported for the previous Beige Book period. Contacts continued to
anticipate moderate growth over the next six months. Manufacturing. Third District manufacturers have continued to report modest growth
overall since the previous Beige Book, but signals were somewhat mixed. A somewhat greater
percentage of firms reported increases in new orders and shipments, even as a slightly greater
percentage of firms reported decreases (the share reporting no change in activity declined). Gains
in activity continued to reflect demand from a broad base of sectors. Except for paper products,
all sectors reported overall increases in shipments and orders. Contacts specifically mentioned
ongoing demand from the auto and energy sectors. Some firms reported growing demand for
home construction products; however, demand remains at a low level. Some producers of
construction-related materials worried that if housing starts do not soon rise further, industry
shakeouts may result in plant closings to eliminate idle capacity. Other contacts mentioned that
demand from defense contracts had stabilized or was growing again from lower levels. Over half of Third District manufacturing contacts expected business conditions to
improve during the next six months. While this is a slightly lower percentage than was reported
during the previous Beige Book period, this is the second consecutive period in which no firms
anticipated deterioration of business conditions. Moreover, a somewhat larger percentage of
firms now expect to increase employment levels over the next six months, to increase their level
of capital spending, or to do both. Retail. Since the prior Beige Book period, Third District contacts have continued to
report slight growth in nonauto retail sales. Although, sales growth of back-to-school shopping
items was generally described as modest. An operator of area malls reported that cooler fall-like
weather has helped move fall apparel inventory, which has allowed many retailers to avoid
deeper discounting, thus improving their margins. After a midsummer lull, the restaurant
business picked up in August and continued growing into September. Contacts reported very
strong restaurant activity in Center City Philadelphia. Overall, contacts are increasingly

 III - 2
optimistic. While hesitant to forecast the upcoming holiday season, one contact suggested that a
lot of ongoing new tenant openings may attract more shoppers. Another contact was optimistic
about three significant Center City retail openings this fall. Auto dealers continued to report strong sales growth. A Pennsylvania contact described
August as one of the best months ever for auto sales at dealers throughout the state; reported
sales for September were also strong but were beginning to show signs of their normal seasonal
slowdown. New Jersey contacts also reported strong August sales followed by lower volumes for
September, as they approach the model-year changeover and typical year-end selloff in October.
Dealers remain very optimistic for continued strong sales levels through 2015. Finance. Third District financial firms have continued to report slight increases in total
loan volume since the previous Beige Book. Volumes increased most for commercial and
industrial loans and for some consumer credit lines (though not for credit cards). Reports on
demand for home mortgages varied across the region from modest growth to little change; all
contacts described low levels of demand for new mortgages, and negligible demand for
refinancing loans. Most contacts reported little change in the commercial real estate market.
Overall, banking contacts continued to report steady improvement in credit quality; several
mentioned that the financials of most small business customers had improved. However,
competition remains intense for creditworthy loan prospects. Some contacts also cited risky loan
terms that they would not match; one described the market as “frothy.” Real Estate and Construction. Third District homebuilders have continued to report
slight growth in new home construction since the previous Beige Book period. Contacts credited
lower gas prices for improving sales traffic and lower interest rates for improving contract
signings. Construction activity is expected to continue at modest levels, as builders are starting
some homes on spec to boost their inventory of move-in-ready homes before the end of the year.
Residential real estate brokers reported little change in sales this period from the prior Beige
Book period. On a year-over-year basis, sales have fallen in most major markets. Brokers noted
that more deals are falling through now than prior to the recession, and bankers noted that fewer
people are qualifying for mortgages. These observations have been borne out by recent monthly
reports from Third District multilists that have seen positive year-over-year growth of pending
contracts evolve into negative growth of contracts closed one month later. Brokers also reported
that the months’ supply of inventory has begun to increase again. Still, brokers remain optimistic
for some improvement in 2015. Overall, nonresidential real estate contacts have reported little change since the previous
Beige Book period in the pace of growth of construction and leasing activity, which remains
slight. Construction activity continues to be greatest for industrial/warehouse building projects;
however, some major office and residential projects have broken ground in Center City
Philadelphia, and construction activity will accelerate next spring when the buildings begin to go
vertical. An architecture and engineering firm reported that its business continued to exceed its
plan, and it will be hiring again. Demand for the firm’s services has been especially strong from
energy-related sectors. Contacts also reported improved leasing activity in downtown
Philadelphia and suburban Philadelphia, especially for Class A office space. Strong demand
continued in Center City Philadelphia for office, residential, and retail space. In the suburban

 III - 3
Philadelphia market, a developer noted that a “flight to quality” from older properties has driven
rents higher for Class A office space and prompted ongoing renovations to upgrade older offices
into Class A space. Services. Third District service-sector firms have continued to report moderate growth in
activity since the previous Beige Book. Nearly half of all firms reported increases in new orders
and sales. Several contacts from banking and health-related manufacturing reported that some
health-care providers had reduced personnel and expenses. These cost-cutting measures were
attributed to narrower margins due to smaller reimbursements from insurance plans. The cuts
occurred even though these providers have been experiencing modest demand increases as a
result of previously uninsured individuals gaining access to healthcare. Staffing contacts in
eastern and central Pennsylvania reported moderate increases in hiring for temporary and
permanent positions. Staffing requests have come from a variety of sectors and for business
expansions as well as replacements. Staffing firms remained very upbeat about prospects for this
year and next. Once again, over three-fourths of all service-sector contacts reported expectations
that growth trends will remain positive over the next six months; none anticipated declines. Third District tourist areas continued to benefit from great weather conditions as the
summer blended into fall. Accordingly, contacts reported modest gains overall. One retail
contact reported dramatic sales increases throughout the shore areas, attributing double-digit
year-over-year gains to more day-tripping even as occupancy rates of shore rentals continued to
rise. (These gains, which were still strong in September, were viewed as resulting from lower
gasoline prices as well as from favorable weather.) Several contacts continued to report that
rebuilding from Hurricane Sandy was not complete in the hardest-hit areas, where new flood
insurance and building standards have slowed reconstruction plans. In the Poconos, contacts
reported favorable weather, higher occupancies, and strong bookings for the upcoming fall
weekends. Contacts reported that recent casino closings in Atlantic City are expected to have a
large effect on the city that should be relatively localized. Reported employment losses in
Atlantic City are high; however, many of the lost jobs were part time (and many of these would
have ended after the summer tourist season was over). Contacts expect that the remaining
casinos may pick up some of the lost business from the recent closures; however, existing staff
levels should be sufficient to service any added activity. More broadly, District tourism contacts
remain generally positive regarding prospects for the fall. Prices and Wages. Overall, Third District contacts reported little change to the steady,
slight pace of price level increases that is similar to that seen in other recent Beige Book periods.
Less than one-third of manufacturing contacts reported an increase in their input costs; just over
10 percent reported charging higher prices for their own products. About one-fifth of service-
sector contacts reported an increase in prices paid and received — a somewhat smaller share than
in the prior period. Auto dealers reported little change in pricing. Several contacts continued to
report tight margins. Generally, contacts reported that hiring remains cautious — occurring when
necessary for replacement or for incremental growth; however, staffing firms continued to note
some increased hiring for expansion. Staffing contacts also reported a few leading signs of wage
pressure: A few job prospects have turned down offers, some companies are making
counteroffers to retain employees, and clients are generally less rigid about salary levels.

 IV - 1 FOURTH DISTRICT – CLEVELAND The economy in the Fourth District expanded at a moderate pace during the past six
weeks. Manufacturers reported moderate to strong business activity. Demand for nonresidential
construction strengthened, while the residential market slowed. Consumer spending at retail
outlets grew, and year-to-date auto sales were above 2013 levels. Since the previous report, coal
production and shale gas activity were little changed. Freight volume grew at a moderate to
robust rate. The demand for business credit moved higher, and consumer lending was stable. Payrolls showed a mild increase, primarily in manufacturing, construction, and freight
transportation. Staffing firms reported that the number of job openings has picked up, while
placements have fallen. Several recruiters reported on a trend to replace permanent, lower-skilled
employees with temporary workers. Due to perceived shortages in selected labor skill areas,
upward pressure on wages is beginning to be felt by general building contractors and freight
haulers. Overall, input and finished goods prices were stable. Prices for energy and agricultural
commodities declined, while transportation equipment prices rose. Manufacturing. Most District factories reported little change in the pace of growth of
new orders and production since the previous report and that year-over-year revenues were
higher. Firms seeing lower production attributed it to seasonal factors or declining exports. Our
contacts remain optimistic and expect moderate to strong demand for the remainder of the year.
Steel shipments improved slightly since the last report. Fourth-quarter shipments are expected to
increase on a seasonally adjusted basis relative to the third quarter, and a few steel producers
project volume in 2014 will be about 5 percent higher compared to 2013. One steel executive
noted that his capacity utilization rate has risen to 80 percent, a rise of 10 percentage points since
the recession ended. Manufacturers and steel producers reported that the strongest demand came
from the construction, motor vehicle, and oil and gas industries. Auto production at District
assembly plants for the first eight months of this year was more than 7 percent higher compared
to the same period in 2013. Many of our contacts anticipate that their capital budgets for fiscal year 2015 will be
higher than current-year spending. In general, input and finished goods prices were stable since
the previous report, apart from declines in agricultural commodities and steel. A food producer
remarked that prices for the major commodities that he purchases are at their lowest level in five
years and he does not believe food inflation will be a major issue for the next 12 months. We
continue to hear numerous reports about new hiring, mainly for production jobs. The boost in
hiring has put little upward pressure on manufacturing wages. Real Estate and Construction. Sales of new and existing single-family homes showed a
modest decline in many parts of the District since the last report. Year-to-date sales through
August were lower compared to a year ago. Most builders expect that activity will stabilize at
current levels, though some expressed concern about the impact of a potential rise in interest
rates combined with continued strict lending standards. Multifamily development (market rate,
affordable, and senior) was characterized as very strong, with occupancy rates greater than 95
percent. In August, single-family construction starts across the District were at their highest level

 IV - 2
so far this year. However, the number of starts year-to-date remains slightly lower compared to
the same time period in 2013. New-home contracts were mainly in the move-up price-point
categories, though activity in the first-time buyer category continues to slowly improve. Some
builders anticipate a modest rise in new-home prices before year’s end, which they attribute to
rising material and labor costs. The upward trend seen in sale prices of existing homes has
leveled off, but the average price remains higher than the average level for 2013 as a whole. Nonresidential builders reported continued strong pipeline activity since our last report,
and a majority indicated that the level of activity has picked up compared to a year ago. A few
builders noted that they are more selective about the inquiries that they respond to because they
are at or near capacity. One builder commented that because his customers are not expecting
prices for nonresidential construction to rise much, there is no sense of urgency to push forward
with some projects. In general, backlogs were described as good or solid. Market demand is
broad based, though demand for industrial space (manufacturing and distribution) and healthcare
facilities is strongest. There has also been a pickup in requests for retail and office space. Leasing
of vacant industrial space has increased. Most builders remain optimistic, but they are concerned
about labor availability, tight margins, and capacity constraints, should a demand spike occur. General contractors are not overly concerned with rising prices for building materials; the
largest price increases are anticipated for steel components, drywall, and wood products. The
pace of hiring has slowed since our last report, with some of the decline in hiring activity being
seasonal. Nonetheless, a majority of general contractors reported that they expect to increase
their payrolls across a broad range of occupations—craft workers, laborers, management, and
back office. Little wage pressure was reported, except for craft workers. Subcontractors are
pushing through rate increases to cover rising costs (including labor) and to widen their margins.
Subcontractors are still encountering capacity and cash-flow issues. As a result, some general
contractors are turning to prefabrication to circumvent subcontractors. Consumer Spending. Spending at retail outlets during August and into early September
was generally higher compared to earlier in the third quarter. Many retailers cited an extended
back-to-school buying period as a contributing factor to the increase. Revenues were higher
relative to the same time period in 2013 for most retailers, which they attributed to a stronger
product mix and growing investment in e-commerce. In addition to back-to-school items, sales
of home furnishings, athletic footwear, and food products were doing well. Fourth-quarter
revenues are projected to be higher, with expected year-over-year percent gains in the low single
digits. Vendor and shelf prices held steady. Several retailers noted that they are running more
promotions than usual, mainly to clear inventory and boost revenues. Excluding new store
openings and temporary seasonal hiring, retail payrolls were stable. New motor vehicle sales showed a moderate decline in August on a month-over-month
basis and were down slightly from a year ago. However, year-to-date sales through August were
5 percent higher compared to the same time period in 2013. Strong sales of SUVs and trucks
continued. Inventory reports were mixed, which is attributable to the model-year changeover.
Dealers believe that the level of sales will follow seasonal trends for the remainder of the year

 IV - 3
and that unit volume for 2014 as a whole will be about 6 percent higher compared to 2013. Used-
car purchases showed a modest decline in August on a month-over-month basis, while year-to-
date unit volume was slightly higher. We heard several reports about automakers becoming
increasingly dependent on the use of incentives to boost sales. Demand for service technicians is
growing, but dealers are having difficulty finding qualified applicants. Banking. Bankers reported that demand for business credit was stable to showing
moderate growth during the past six weeks. While demand was described as broad based, it was
strongest for commercial real estate and construction loans and C&I lending to manufacturers.
Interest rates held steady. On net, consumer credit demand was roughly stable. The number of
applications for auto loans remains very high, while households are making marginally greater
use of home equity lines of credit. Residential mortgage activity was flat to down slightly; some
of the decline is seasonal. Purchase transactions dominate mortgage applications. Delinquency
rates are stable to improving across categories. No changes were made to loan-application
standards during the past six weeks. However, to gain a competitive advantage, there has been
some slight relaxing of terms and conditions. Banks saw growth in core deposits from businesses
and consumers. On balance, banking payrolls held steady. New hires were mainly in the areas of
compliance, risk management, and commercial lending; however, in response to reduced traffic
at branches, payrolls there are being reduced. Energy. Year-to-date coal production across the District is consistent with prior-year
levels, with no material change in output anticipated in the near term. A production decline in
eastern Kentucky is being offset by a significant increase in northern West Virginia. Spot prices
for thermal and metallurgical coal remain on a downward trend. Activity in the Marcellus and
Utica Shales remains at a high level. During the first half of 2014, production in Ohio’s Utica
Shale was more than six times greater relative to the same time period in 2013, while the number
of producing wells increased by 61 percent. Wellhead prices for natural gas and oil have declined
since late in the second quarter. Since the last report, equipment and materials prices were
largely unchanged and energy payrolls held steady. Freight Transportation. Freight volume expanded since the last report, with contacts
describing year-over-year growth as moderate to robust. Although demand is fairly broad based,
it is strongest from the agriculture, motor vehicle, and oil and gas industries. The near-term
outlook is favorable. Contacts from trucking and railroads observed that insufficient capacity is a
major issue that is currently confronting the industry and that there is concern about stress on the
freight-transport system from this year’s grain harvest, which is expected to be at a historic high.
We heard a report about rail carriers being reluctant to contract for shipments of less than five
carloads, which is hurting small manufacturers. The cost of new equipment (truck tractors and
rail cars) is rising, and in some cases delivery times are lengthening. Some of the higher cost was
attributed to meeting regulatory requirements. Hiring is both for replacement and for adding
capacity. Projected capital spending in fiscal year 2015 is mainly for equipment replacement.
Although most fleets would like to add capacity, they are having difficulty finding drivers.

 V-1 FIFTH DISTRICT–RICHMOND Overview. District economic conditions improved modestly since the previous report.
Manufacturing advanced as shipments and new orders grew modestly, and inventories of finished goods
and raw materials rose at a faster pace. Retail sales rose on pace with our last report, and the non-retail
service sector expanded moderately. Tourism remained robust, and executives anticipate a strong holiday
season. Business lending was unchanged on balance, and competition among bankers remained intense.
Residential real estate activity increased in recent weeks, albeit at a somewhat slower pace, and reports on
housing inventory were mixed. In agriculture, crop harvesting was on schedule, with price declines for
some crops. In the energy sector, coal production and prices declined. More natural gas wells were
brought online. On balance, District labor market reports indicated greater demand for workers.
According to our latest surveys, manufacturing employment grew modestly and average wages rose
slightly. Service-sector employment and wages increased at a moderate pace. Manufacturing. Manufacturing activity increased in recent weeks, and expectations for the
months ahead remained positive. Shipments and new orders grew modestly, and inventories of finished
goods and raw materials rose at a faster pace relative to the previous report. A medical equipment
manufacturer in North Carolina reported continued robust growth in new orders during the past six weeks
and noted optimistic customer expectations for the months ahead. Additionally, a North Carolina
electrical equipment manufacturer indicated that orders were up, and that his firm’s increased capital
spending had improved its shipment capability. A source said that in West Virginia, large manufacturing
firms were hiring and investing, but that smaller manufacturers were not making capital investments. A
Virginia food manufacturer reported that order volume was flat during the past month, but that he
expected improvement during the holidays. However, an executive at a North Carolina textile
manufacturer stated that revenues had slowed and retailers were holding back on new orders. Prices of
raw materials and finished goods rose at a slightly faster pace since the last report. Ports. District port officials reported that activity remained strong, suggesting that the peak
import season, which had begun earlier than usual, was extended rather than just shifted forward. Loaded
container traffic rose further for the major ports, primarily for imports; for other traffic as well, imports
continued to outpace exports. Some of the softness in exports was attributed to rail and trucking issues,
such as slowdowns from bottlenecks in rail service and truck driver shortages, which have delayed
movement of inland cargo to the ports. Port contacts reported strong exports of autos, as well as of
containerized grain and soybeans. Imports were led by commodities related to housing and retail, such as
appliances, flooring, apparel, and footwear. According to one official, shipping lines have been
consolidating and upgrading to larger ships.

 V-2 Retail. Retail sales rose on pace with our last report. Big-ticket sales grew solidly, but somewhat
more slowly relative to the previous report. Sales picked up for suppliers of retail and wholesale building
materials. Wholesalers of heavy equipment also reported stronger sales. A car dealer near Washington,
D.C. said he expects this year’s sales to be about the same as the record sales of a year ago, with dealer
incentives helping to move current-year models. According to a central Virginia retail representative,
current strong sales of furniture, appliances, and electronics may signal that consumers have more cash,
but early big-ticket sales may leave less for discretionary spending during the later weeks of the holiday
season. In contrast, the manager at a discount store in the Hampton Roads area of Virginia said that there
was almost no change in sales revenues during the past six weeks, but customers were already making
holiday purchases using the store’s lay-away program. A grocery store manager in southwestern Virginia
commented that diminishing incomes for coal mining families, together with rising meat prices, have
resulted in lower sales per purchase. Retail price increases slowed since the previous report. Services. Firms in the non-retail service sector reported moderate growth in recent weeks.
Technology firms, engineering companies, and a few smaller healthcare facilities reported stronger
revenue growth. According to a North Carolina hospital source, it has been a good year for revenues, and
that the hospital was able to make small price increases. In contrast, an executive at a large healthcare
system said that cost reductions, including hiring restrictions, were continuing and that their projections
were for reduced inpatient volumes. While executives at a couple of accounting firms in North Carolina
reported a pick-up in business, a CPA at a Maryland accounting firm saw little change in requests for
proposals. According to our most recent survey, non-retail price growth increased slightly. The summer tourism season finished on a high note, meeting resort managers’ expectations.
Moreover, hoteliers in Baltimore and western North Carolina said that conventions and autumn leaf
viewing were expected to support strong bookings throughout October. A source on North Carolina’s
Outer Banks reported a number of scheduled autumn events to draw tourists for several more weeks. In
addition, many rentals were already booked for Thanksgiving, Christmas, and New Year’s. Few rate
changes were reported. Finance. Reports on lending activity were mixed in recent weeks. Residential mortgage demand
declined in West Virginia and southeastern Virginia but rose slightly in Maryland, North Carolina, and
South Carolina. Refinance loan demand was mostly unchanged except in West Virginia and South
Carolina, where demand declined. Business lending was unchanged on balance. A contact in Maryland
remarked that small businesses were having difficulty getting credit while larger businesses had no
problems. The level of lending in commercial and industrial real estate, which had been trending up, has
flattened in the Carolinas and West Virginia. Bankers in several locations characterized competition as
“fierce.” A lender from South Carolina reported some easing of standards; however, a contact from

 V-3
Maryland cited a tightening of underwriting standards. There were no reports of changes to credit quality.
Lastly, slight upward pressure on loan interest rates was reported in West Virginia. Real Estate. District housing market activity grew at a somewhat slower pace since the previous
report. Most brokers indicated that buyer traffic was steady, on a seasonally adjusted basis. Most Realtors
reported a slight increase in home prices, although one South Carolina broker reported a small decrease in
both single-family and condominium sale prices. A contact in the Hampton Roads region of Virginia
stated that the number of condominium sales was only slightly higher; apartment rental activity remained
steady. Inventory reports were mixed. Realtors in South Carolina, North Carolina, and Virginia saw
seasonal declines in inventories, while District of Columbia and northern Virginia brokers reported steady
or rising inventories. Days on the market varied by location. Average market times decreased for Realtors
in Richmond, Charlotte, and Myrtle Beach, but contacts in the nation’s capital and Greensboro reported
no change; a northern Virginia Realtor noted a slight increase. Construction across the District increased
slightly for custom homes. A South Carolina Realtor saw no new multifamily construction and a Virginia
Beach broker stated that multifamily growth is slowing down because of overbuilding. In contrast, an
agent in Asheville stated that multifamily construction has “ramped up.” Commercial real estate activity improved modestly over the past several weeks. A broker in
Charlotte reported a gradual improvement in sales and leasing, with a moderately strong office market
and modest activity in industrial and retail real estate. The office market in the Hampton Roads area of
Virginia was mixed. A South Carolina source reported robust leasing in both office and retail, with a
slower industrial market since the last report. Retail vacancy rates were lower in Baltimore and Virginia
Beach, and unchanged in Charlotte and Richmond. Office vacancy rates varied across the District. A
Charlotte broker reported increased industrial construction, along with a few speculative office projects.
Multiple contacts noted rising commercial sales prices. Rental rates varied across regions and submarkets. Agriculture and Natural Resources. Corn prices declined further over the past six weeks.
Soybean prices also fell, while cotton prices were unchanged. A West Virginia farmer stated that grain
prices declined after seven years of above-average prices. Farmers’ input prices were unchanged in South
Carolina and Virginia. A grower in South Carolina reported completion of corn harvesting and the start of
peanut harvesting since the previous report. In West Virginia a farmer said that crop planting, reseeding,
and harvesting were on schedule, and that his compost business had increased in the past six weeks. Since the previous report, coal production and prices decreased in southern West Virginia and
rose in the northern part of the state, according to a source. Natural gas production increased moderately;
more West Virginia wells were brought online, and natural gas prices decreased slightly. Labor Markets. On balance, demand for workers increased since the previous report. A textile
and chemical manufacturer from Virginia reported new hiring, while a food producer transitioned several
temporary employees into full–time positions. New hiring in tourism, manufacturing, and IT was noted in

 V-4
West Virginia; however, there were reports that WARN Act notices, indicating a planned mass layoff,
had been issued in the coal industry. A central Virginia staffing agent noticed significantly stronger
demand in recent weeks, especially for customer service, healthcare, and legal workers. A Maryland
employment service provider said there were no notable changes in hiring, but suggested that the skills
most in demand were for managers, supervisors, engineers, and IT professionals. Some transportation,
banking and finance, hospitality, and retail industries continued to have difficulty finding workers. A few
contacts reported wage pressures for drivers, construction workers, skilled engineers, managers, IT
professionals, and bankers. According to our most recent surveys, manufacturing employment grew at a
modest pace, the average workweek lengthened, and wages rose slightly; in the service sector,
employment and wages increased at a moderate pace.

 VI-1 SIXTH DISTRICT – ATLANTA Sixth District business contacts described economic conditions as improving at a modest
pace in September. The outlook among firms remains largely optimistic with the majority of
contacts expecting near-term growth to be sustained at or slightly above current levels. Retailers cited a slight improvement in sales activity since the previous report. Auto
dealers continued to note increasing sales. Hospitality contacts continued to report strong
activity, with increasing demand from both leisure and business travel. Residential real estate
contacts indicated that existing and new home sales and prices remained ahead of last year’s
levels, and inventory levels were down from a year ago. Commercial real estate brokers
continued to note improved demand and modest levels of construction for most property types.
Multifamily construction, in particular, continued to increase across much of the District.
Manufacturers indicated that overall activity expanded with new orders and production
increasing since the previous report. Banking conditions improved for both businesses and
consumers as loan volume increased slightly, on balance. Payrolls across the region expanded
slowly and businesses continued to report difficulties finding qualified workers. Contacts
indicated wages grew at a steady pace. Some contacts expressed concerns about the rising costs
of specific inputs. Consumer Spending and Tourism. District retailers reported a slight improvement in
sales since the previous report. Young shoppers were described as being confident and willing to
spend, while older consumers were reportedly being more cautious. The battle between online
sales versus brick-and-mortar store sales continued as merchants indicated that competition from
rival stores’ online sales was having an adverse effect on in-store traffic. However, the outlook
among retailers for the remainder of the year remains optimistic. District auto dealers not only
continued to see increased consumer sales, but saw strong demand from commercial businesses
as well. Reports on tourism and business travel remained upbeat. Tourism activity across the
region was strong with high occupancy numbers at hotels and resorts. The development of
various new entertainment venues has increased demand for leisure travel and business travel has
been solid year to date. Overall, hospitality contacts maintain a positive outlook for the
remainder of 2014 and the beginning of 2015. Real Estate and Construction. Many District brokers reported growth in activity since
the previous report. Most brokers indicated that home sales met or exceeded their plan for the

 VI-2
reporting period, but a growing share of contacts reported that sales fell short of their plan. The
majority of brokers indicated that inventory levels remained flat or continued to decline on a
year-over-year basis and home prices were ahead of their year-earlier level. Regarding the
outlook, optimism about future sales activity waned from earlier reports with most brokers
expecting home sales to remain flat or decline slightly over the next three months with some of
the expected decline being attributed to seasonal factors. Reports from District builders remained fairly positive. The majority reported that recent
construction activity either met or exceeded their plan for the period. Many builders noted that
construction activity and new home sales were ahead of their year-ago levels. Half of contacted
builders indicated that their inventory of unsold homes was down from a year ago. Builders also
continued to report modest home price appreciation. The outlook among builders for new home
sales and construction activity remains positive. Commercial real estate brokers across the District continued to report improving demand
since the previous report, though they cautioned that the rate of improvement varied by
metropolitan area, submarket, and property type. Commercial contractors reported that
apartment construction remained robust. Contacts also noted that the level of construction
activity across other property types continued to increase modestly. The outlook among District
commercial real estate contacts remains fairly optimistic. Manufacturing and Transportation. District manufacturers reported that activity
expanded compared with the previous reporting period. Contacts noted growth in new orders
and production; in addition, they indicated that finished inventory levels rose and commodity
prices continued to increase. Respondents noted that supplier delivery times for inputs were
slightly shorter. Relative to the previous report, a larger share of purchasing agents polled during
the reporting period expect production to increase over the next three to six months. Overall, transportation contacts reported an improvement in demand since the previous
report. District railroads cited increases in total carloads, led by significant strengthening in
shipments of petroleum products; grain; and military, machinery, and transportation equipment.
Intermodal traffic continued to increase on a year-over-year basis. Ports in the District reported a
notable increase in container traffic and substantial growth in overall cargo tonnage in
September. Trucking companies continued to experience strong freight demand through the end
of September. Banking and Finance. Contacts described the financing environment as improving for
both businesses and consumers, with a growing number of projects being financed. Competition

 VI-3
for high-quality borrowers remained very keen and credit demand was mixed. Line-of-credit
utilization at banks remained relatively flat with few requests for increased limits on short-term
credit. Demand for some other loan types was up from year-ago levels. Employment and Prices. With a few exceptions, contacts reported that their staffing
levels were increasing slowly. The District added 51,100 jobs on net in August and the
unemployment rate rose 0.2 percentage point to 6.9 percent. Nearly all states in the District
added to payrolls in August, with the exception of Mississippi, which lost 4,600 jobs on net.
Businesses across the region continued to report difficulty finding qualified workers. Similar to
the previous report, hiring challenges appeared to be both intensifying and broadening across the
skill and occupation spectrums. In general, firms indicated that their pricing power remained relatively weak, although a
growing number of contacts expect improved margins over the coming year. Contacts in some
sectors, including transportation and construction, continued to report concerns about rising input
costs, though a slower pace of commodity price increases is anticipated to offer some respite
going forward. Respondents to the latest business inflation expectations survey indicated that,
on average, businesses anticipate unit costs to rise 2.1 percent over the coming 12 months. There
were some reports of upward pressure on starting salaries; however, average compensation
increases for most contacts remained anchored between two and three percent per year. Natural Resources and Agriculture. Contacts in the oil industry reported that there was
an excess supply of crude oil, with recent prices well below year-ago levels. Gulf Coast refinery
utilization increased over the last year. Imports of crude oil fell; exports were slightly above
year-ago levels, though some contacts expressed concern that the strength of the dollar has made
U.S. oil exports more expensive for the rest of the world. Parts of Alabama, Florida, and Georgia experienced abnormally dry to severe drought
conditions. Lower corn prices continued to benefit poultry and livestock producers that rely on
corn for feed. The USDA announced a new financial assistance program for eligible Florida
citrus growers to help with the removal and replacement of stock affected by citrus greening.

 VII-1 SEVENTH DISTRICT—CHICAGO Summary. Growth in economic activity in the Seventh District remained moderate in
September, and contacts maintained their optimistic outlook for the rest of the year. Consumer and
business spending, manufacturing production, and construction and real estate activity all increased
moderately. Credit conditions and cost pressures changed little on balance. Corn and soybean prices
fell as a big harvest got underway, but milk, hog, and cattle prices increased. Consumer spending. Growth in consumer spending remained moderate in September, led
by continued strength in auto sales. Lower gas prices spurred sales of larger vehicles, especially
light trucks, and consumers continued to take advantage of low lending rates and easing loan
standards. Several auto dealers also noted that leasing activity had finally returned to pre-recession
levels. Non-auto retail spending increased slightly, as growth picked up for discretionary spending
categories in recent weeks. Retail contacts generally expected that sales in the upcoming holiday
season would be up slightly relative to a year ago. Business spending. Business spending also continued to grow at a moderate pace in
September. Inventories remained at comfortable levels for most retailers and manufacturers. Non-
auto retailers reported adding more to their holiday season inventories than they did last year.
Capital expenditures and capital spending plans steadily increased, with expenditures primarily
going toward replacing IT and industrial equipment. A number of manufacturing contacts,
especially auto suppliers, reported that demand was strong enough to justify expansion in the near
future. Both actual hiring and hiring plans increased at a moderate pace, and many contacts reported
slightly higher turnover. Many manufacturing contacts added hours to meet increased demand.
Holiday hiring began, and retailers plan to hire slightly more holiday workers than last year.
Demand remained strong for skilled workers, particularly for those in professional and technical
occupations and skilled manufacturing and building trades. Contacts again mentioned expanding
internal training programs to address worker shortages and an increased willingness to pay higher
wages. A staffing firm reported strong order books, but noted that improving labor market
conditions in the District were leading to increased difficulties finding qualified workers. Construction and real estate. Construction and real estate activity also increased
moderately over the reporting period. Residential construction continued to expand in both the
single- and multi-family markets. An industry contact noted that with homebuilders beginning to
exhaust their existing inventories of vacant in-fill lots, single-family construction might slow in

 VII-2
some areas of the District until planned projects start to come online. Builders also noted improved
availability of financing for new projects, but indicated that difficulties in finding skilled labor have
often delayed construction. Home sales were somewhat lower, and growth in home prices and
residential rents slowed. Real estate contacts expected sales to return to normal levels in the coming
months, pointing to recent increases in online and open-house traffic. Nonresidential construction
increased, driven in large part by demand for industrial and office buildings. Automotive parts
manufacturers, in particular, remained a source of demand for industrial buildings. Commercial real
estate activity continued to expand, with contacts noting strong demand for medical office
buildings. Vacancies ticked down, rents rose, and leasing of industrial buildings, office space, and
retail space all increased. Manufacturing. Manufacturing continued to grow at a moderate pace in September. The
auto, aerospace, and energy industries remained a source of strength for the District. Light vehicle
production increased as manufacturers built up inventories in anticipation of continued growth in
sales. Demand for steel steadily increased and most specialty metal manufacturers’ order books
continued to fill. Led by the U.S. market, demand for heavy machinery picked up some on net, as
higher demand for construction machinery overshadowed weaker demand for agricultural and
mining equipment. Slowing demand has led some agricultural machinery manufacturers to start
offering incentives such as extended warranties, low interest rate loans, and special financing to
help dealers sell used equipment. Manufacturers of construction materials reported a modest
increase in demand, but still were disappointed in the slow pace of improvement in the housing
market. Utility contacts reported that weather-adjusted load growth was flat over the reporting
period. Banking/finance. Credit conditions were mixed in September. Financial market
participants noted slightly tighter financial conditions, pointing to an increase in equity market
volatility and widening corporate bond spreads. In contrast, banking contacts cited looser
conditions, with business and consumer lending both increasing. Business loan demand for
equipment and commercial real estate financing rose, as did utilization of credit lines for working
capital. Banking contacts also noted that despite elevated acquisition multiples, their clients
continue to seek opportunities for mergers and acquisitions; this was especially the case for large
corporations with ample cash balances. Consumer loan demand increased, with contacts citing some
additional growth in credit card lending, continued strong growth in auto lending, and an uptick in
mortgage lending.

 VII-3 Prices/costs. Cost pressures changed little on balance over the reporting period. Energy
costs declined. Steel and aluminum prices increased. A contact noted that supply constraints in the
Midwest pushed up the local price for aluminum to a new high relative to benchmark spot prices. A
number of manufacturers expected to be able to raise prices, especially those in the auto industry,
where capacity is increasingly constrained. Retail prices were down slightly as contacts reported
more generous sales promotions. Meat and dairy prices remained elevated, though contacts did not
report price pressures for other grocery items. Overall, wage pressures were modest, but a number
of contacts again reported moderate wage pressures for skilled workers. Non-wage labor costs
changed little from the previous reporting period. Many contacts reported passing some of their
higher health care costs on to employees in the form of higher co-pays or deductibles. Agriculture. Overall crop conditions were very good at the start of the harvest. The District
should see record corn and soybean harvests. Early results indicated yields for corn and soybeans
would range from above-average to record-high levels. The huge anticipated harvests pushed down
corn and soybean prices. Crop income was lower than a year ago as higher yields were insufficient
to offset lower prices. Crop insurance will cover some of the lost income, but farmers already are
planning to trim costs for next year, particularly spending on farm equipment and other capital
purchases. Corn farmers helped bid up cattle prices, with the intention of using the abundant harvest
as feed for their own cattle production rather than selling it. Hog and milk prices were higher as
well, contributing to expansions in output of these commodities.

 VIII-1 Eighth District - St. Louis
Summary Economic activity in the Eighth District has increased at a moderate pace since the
previous report. Recent reports of planned activity in manufacturing and services have been
largely positive. Reports from retail contacts have also been positive. Overall residential real
estate market conditions have remained weak. Commercial and industrial real estate market
conditions have been mixed, but commercial and industrial construction has increased. Lending
activity at a sample of small and midsized District banks increased from mid-June to mid-
September.
Manufacturing and Other Business Activity Reports of plans for manufacturing activity have been largely positive since the previous
report. Several manufacturing firms reported plans to add workers, expand operations, or open
new facilities in the Eighth District, while a smaller number of contacts reported plans to reduce
employment. Producers of construction materials, tools, consumer goods, and aviation
equipment announced plans to hire new employees and expand operations in the Eighth District.
In contrast, a metal products manufacturer and a food manufacturer reported plans to lay off
workers and close facilities. Reports from automobile and auto parts manufacturers were
positive, with District contacts reporting plans to expand operations and hire new workers. Reports of plans in the District’s service sector have also been positive since the previous
report. Firms in freight, insurance and financial, and communications services reported new
hiring and expansion plans in the District. In contrast, firms in animal health services and firms
in news media services announced plans to lay off employees. Reports from healthcare services
firms were mixed. Anecdotal reports from retailers were mostly positive. Contacts in Memphis

 VIII-2
noted new openings or expanding operations in retail and grocery establishments. In contrast, a
major nationwide retailer announced two store closures in the District.
Real Estate and Construction Home sales decreased in the Eighth District on a year-over-year basis. Compared with the
same period in 2013, August 2014 year-to-date home sales were down 3 percent in Little Rock, 2
percent in Louisville, 8 percent in Memphis, and 5 percent in St. Louis. Residential construction
declined in the majority of the District’s metro areas. August 2014 year-to-date single-family
housing permits decreased in the majority of the District’s metro areas compared with the same
period in 2013. In particular, permits decreased 29 percent in Little Rock, 8 percent in Louisville,
and 3 percent in St. Louis. In contrast, permits increased 2 percent in Memphis. Commercial and industrial real estate market conditions were mixed throughout the
District. A contact in Louisville reported an increase in prospective commercial tenants in the
downtown area. A contact in Memphis noted that the Germantown commercial real estate market
remains strong. A contact in Little Rock reported robust demand for commercial real estate
space. Commercial and industrial construction activity improved throughout most of the District
since the previous report. A contact in Memphis reported plans for a large-scale mixed-use
development in the downtown area. A contact in Louisville reported the construction of a
building in an industrial park in southern Indiana, with tentative plans for the construction of
additional buildings. A Little Rock contact reported the redevelopment of vacant commercial
real estate space in Fayetteville. Contacts in St. Louis reported the expansion of a commercial
real estate development in Chesterfield and multiple plans for speculative industrial development
projects across the area.

 VIII-3
Banking and Finance Total loans outstanding at a sample of small and midsized District banks increased 1.9
percent from mid-June to mid-September. Real estate lending, which accounts for 72 percent of
total loans, increased 1.1 percent over this period. Commercial and industrial loans, which
account for 16 percent of total loans, increased 2.0 percent over the period. Loans to individuals,
which account for 5.3 percent of total loans, increased 4.6 percent over the period. All other
loans, which account for 7.2 percent of total loans, increased 7.7 percent over the period. During
this period, total deposits at these banks decreased 0.2 percent.
Agriculture and Natural Resources As of late September, about 75 percent of the District’s corn, rice, and soybean crops was
rated in good or excellent condition. Similarly, about 60 percent of the District’s pastureland was
rated in good or excellent condition; Kentucky’s pastureland, in particular, has improved
significantly since the previous report. Harvest completion rates across the District have lagged
behind their five-year averages. District coal production for August was about 1.5 percent higher
than a year ago.
Employment, Wages, and Prices Anecdotal information suggests that employment in the Eighth District grew moderately
since the previous report, while wages and prices grew modestly. A contact in Louisville noted
increased turnover of skilled employees who are switching to higher-paying jobs. Contacts also
noted increases in the cost of lumber and other building materials, and indicated that increased
demand has allowed some retail dealers of construction materials to increase prices to
consumers.

 IX-1 NINTH DISTRICT--MINNEAPOLIS
The Ninth District economy grew at a moderate pace since the previous report. Increased activity
was noted in consumer spending, tourism, commercial real estate, professional services,
manufacturing, and energy. Agricultural conditions were mixed and mining was flat, while
construction and residential real estate activity decreased. Labor markets continued to show signs
of tightening. Overall wage increases were modest, while price increases generally remained
subdued.
Consumer Spending and Tourism
Consumer spending increased moderately overall since the previous report. August and
early-September same-store sales at a mall in North Dakota were up about 2 percent
compared with the same period a year earlier. Recent sales and traffic at a South Dakota mall
were relatively flat compared with last year, while August sales were flat relative to a year
ago at a Minnesota mall. An apparel retailer noted that recent sales were up slightly from a
year earlier. Recent vehicle sales at Montana dealerships were doing well with particularly
strong sales in the northeastern part of the state, according to a representative of an auto
dealers association. Tourism activity was up from last year. This year’s record attendance at the
Minnesota State Fair was 5 percent higher than a year ago. A travel agency in Minnesota
noted that recent leisure travel bookings were about 10 percent higher than last year, while
another travel agency reported that leisure bookings in August and September were strong.
Compared with last year, August visits to Glacier National Park were up 8 percent and visits
to Yellowstone National Park were up 7 percent. According to a survey of lodging and
camping properties in Minnesota, 48 percent of respondents reported that summer occupancy
was up from a year ago, while 25 percent reported that it was down.
Construction and Real Estate
Commercial construction activity decreased since the previous report. Commercial permits in
Billings, Mont., were down significantly in value in September from a year earlier. In Sioux
Falls, S.D., the value of August commercial permits decreased from a year ago. Residential
construction decreased from last year. In the Minneapolis-St. Paul area, the value of
September residential permits decreased 16 percent compared with September 2013. The
value of August residential permits in Sioux Falls decreased 40 percent from the same period
last year. The value of August housing permits decreased significantly in Bismarck from a

 IX-2
year ago. However, September residential building permits in Billings increased in value
from last year. Activity in commercial real estate markets increased since the previous report.
Several commercial real estate transactions were announced around the District, including
both purchase and lease transactions in retail, hotel, office, and industrial real estate.
However, a retailer announced that it would vacate three of its stores in Minnesota this year.
Residential real estate market activity decreased since the previous report. In the Sioux Falls
area, August home sales were down 8 percent, inventory increased 11 percent, and the
median sales price increased 5 percent relative to a year earlier. August home sales were
down 5 percent from the same period a year ago in Minnesota; the inventory of homes for
sale increased 13 percent, and the median sales price rose 4 percent. Several Minnesota real
estate professionals and investors recently noted that out-of-state investor groups are paying
above-market prices for single-family rental properties in Minneapolis. Meanwhile, August
home sales in western Wisconsin were up 8 percent from a year ago; the median sales price
was flat.
Services
Activity at professional business services firms increased at a modest pace since the previous
report. Contacts from architectural firms noted some increases from a year ago in bidding
activity for government and industrial projects. Contacts from accounting and legal firms
noted steady activity since the previous report. Several contacts noted that capacity constraints
in freight rail have increased demand for trucking services.
Manufacturing
Manufacturing activity grew moderately since the previous report. A manufacturing index
released by Creighton University (Omaha, Neb.) increased in September from the previous
month in North Dakota; the index fell slightly in Minnesota and South Dakota, but remained
at levels consistent with expansion in activity in all three states. An agribusiness firm
announced that it will move ahead in building a $3 billion fertilizer plant in North Dakota.
Energy and Mining
Activity in the energy sector increased, while mining was steady since the previous report.
Late-September oil and gas exploration activity increased in North Dakota and was level in
Montana from a month earlier; production remained at record levels. A partnership announced
plans to build a 450-mile pipeline from the Bakken oil fields to a hub in Wyoming. A crude
oil storage facility in North Dakota announced a $5.5 million expansion. Production at District

 IX-3
iron ore mines appeared steady in August compared with a month earlier. It was announced
that construction will resume on a $1.8 billion ore production facility that was delayed due to
financing. Freight rail congestion was leading to increased stockpiles at some ore production
facilities, as locomotives and crews that move ore to port were in short supply.
Agriculture
Agricultural conditions were mixed since the previous report. The most recent USDA forecast
calls for substantially increased production of corn and soybeans this year in District states
compared with 2013. Livestock and dairy producers continued to benefit from lower feed
costs and high output prices. Most of the district’s crops were in good or excellent condition
despite late planting; however, an early frost damaged soybeans in some parts of Minnesota
and South Dakota. Relative to a year earlier, prices received by farmers in September were
lower for corn, soybeans, and wheat; prices increased for hay, cattle, hogs, poultry, and milk.
Employment, Wages, and Prices
Labor markets continued to show signs of tightening since the previous report. In Minnesota,
a firm is hiring 1,000 seasonal workers to fill a variety of positions, a medical device
manufacturer announced plans to add over 200 jobs, a window manufacturer will add 100
jobs, and a heating and air conditioning plant announced plans to add 95 jobs over the next
three years. According to a survey of Minnesota businesses by an employment services firm,
19 percent of respondents expect to hire more employees during the fourth quarter, while 6
percent expect decreases in staffing. In last year’s survey, 17 percent expected staffing
increases, while 7 percent expected decreases. According to surveys conducted by four
technical schools in South Dakota, almost all graduates were employed or continuing their
education six months after graduation. Some contacts noted continued difficulty finding truck
drivers to fill open positions. In contrast, a food manufacturer recently announced plans to
eliminate up to 800 positions companywide. Overall, wage increases were modest since the previous report. However, according to
a recent survey of central Minnesota businesses by St. Cloud State University, 54 percent of
respondents expect to increase compensation over the next six months, up from 43 percent in
last year’s survey. Price increases generally remained subdued. End-of-September Minnesota gasoline
prices were down about 10 cents per gallon both from mid-August and from a year earlier.
Metals prices decreased somewhat since the previous report.

 X-1 TENTH DISTRICT - KANSAS CITY The Tenth District economy grew modestly in late August and September, and most
contacts were optimistic about future activity. Consumer spending was up moderately despite some
sluggishness at restaurants and hotels, and expectations for future sales were mostly positive.
District manufacturing activity grew modestly, and wholesale trade firms reported improved sales.
District real estate activity increased slightly, and activity in the energy sector continued to expand.
Transportation, professional, and high-tech firms reported slower growth relative to the previous
survey. Bankers reported steady loan demand, better loan quality, and stable deposits. In
agriculture, crop conditions remained solid in the District, but lower crop prices weighed on the
outlook for farm incomes. Prices grew more slowly in most industries, while some firms reported
increased wage pressures as well as labor shortages for specific positions. Consumer Spending. Consumer spending grew at a solid rate, and contacts were more
optimistic about future sales growth than in previous reports. Retail sales grew moderately, at a
similar pace of growth as in the previous survey. Several retailers noted stronger sales of home
improvement and building materials, though sales for some higher-priced items were characterized
as weak. Expectations for future sales remained strong, and inventory levels were expected to rise
somewhat. Auto sales were up modestly from the previous survey. Dealer contacts anticipated
some increases in sales in the months ahead and noted solid sales for mid-sized vehicles and small
SUVs. Auto inventories fell further, with one contact noting a considerable rise in the cost of
inventory. Restaurant sales weakened in late August and September but remained well above year-
ago levels, and contacts expected sales to improve in coming months. Many restaurants reported a
reduction in employment, and one restaurant owner said they would be adding a health care
surcharge of 3 percent to each check. District tourism activity fell from the previous month, but
was up strongly from a year ago. Expectations for future tourism edged down somewhat but
remained solid. Manufacturing and Other Business Activity. District manufacturing and other business
activity rose modestly in late August and September. Factory production increased, primarily at
durable goods producers, though several nondurable-goods producers also reported modest gains.
However, activity at some food processing plants continued to decline in the face of higher beef

 X-2
prices. Contacts reported solid gains in factory shipments and employment, with new orders up
slightly. Expectations for future factory activity held steady at overall favorable levels.
Manufacturers’ capital spending plans increased slightly and remained well above year-ago levels.
Growth in wholesale trade sales increased, with contacts expecting continued solid growth in the
next few months. Transportation, professional, and high-tech firms reported smaller gains than the
previous survey, although sales remained considerably higher than year-ago levels and many
contacts expected solid improvement heading forward. One trucking firm cited supply chain
disruptions and new regulations as having slowed freight traffic for both shippers and distributors. Real Estate and Construction. On balance, District real estate activity increased slightly
in late August and September with residential real estate activity flat and commercial real estate
activity increasing moderately. Residential home sales were unchanged compared to the previous
survey period and were similar to year-ago levels. Sales of low- and medium-priced homes
continued to run ahead of sales for higher-priced homes. Home prices increased modestly, and
inventories continued to rise slightly. Most residential real estate contacts expected home sales to
decrease in the coming months primarily reflecting typical seasonal declines. Housing starts and
construction supply sales edged down since the previous survey period. Residential construction
activity was expected to pick up slightly as builders anticipated a slight increase in traffic of
potential buyers. Commercial real estate activity increased moderately relative to the previous
survey period as contacts continued to report a decline in vacancy rates, an increase in absorption,
higher sales, and increased construction activity. The commercial real estate market was expected
to strengthen at a moderate pace over the coming months. Banking. Bankers reported steady overall loan demand, a modest improvement in loan
quality, and mostly steady deposit levels in late August and September. Loan demand was slightly
improved for agricultural loans, consumer installment loans and commercial and industrial loans.
Demand for residential real estate loans was slightly weaker compared to the last survey. Even with
the recent modest improvement in loan quality, most bankers indicated loan quality was unchanged
compared to a year ago, and many expected it to remain the same over the next six months. Credit
standards remained largely unchanged for all major loan categories, and deposit levels were stable
for most banks.

 X-3 Energy. Energy activity continued to expand in late August and September. District
contacts reported steady growth in drilling activity, primarily for oil, and expectations for future
drilling were solid, though somewhat lower than the previous survey. Oil prices declined in late
August and September, as global demand failed to keep up with supply. Most respondents expected
oil prices to decline marginally in the coming months, yet most producers anticipated that drilling
would remain profitable across the areas where they are active. Natural gas prices continued to
decline but remained slightly above year-ago levels; most contacts expected these prices to start to
rise modestly as the winter heating season approaches. Energy firms’ overall capital expenditure
plans remained solid. Agriculture. Despite expectations of above-average yields, further declines in crop prices
weighed on farm income prospects in the District. However, crop insurance and some pre-selling of
this year’s crop at higher prices earlier in the year may help mitigate the effect on overall farm
incomes of recent spot price declines. The corn and soybean crops were mostly rated in good to
excellent condition as harvest began. Cattle prices rose since the last survey period while hog prices
fell with increased production resulting from higher dressed weights. The demand for farm
operating loans has risen substantially from last year as more crop producers borrowed to pay for
operating costs. Bankers also reported a rise in requests for agricultural loan renewals and
extensions and noted that loan repayment rates have edged down from the high levels seen the past
few years. Despite the sharp drop in crop prices, farmland values were typically holding at high
levels. Wages and Prices. Relative to the previous report, prices rose at a slightly slower pace in
most industries, and while most firms reported only modest wage pressures, in some cases wage
pressures were more pronounced. Retail price growth was minimal, likely because retailers’ input
costs rose more slowly than in previous surveys. Restaurant menu prices also rose less than in
previous surveys despite persistent growth in input costs. Manufacturing selling prices rose
slightly, while raw materials prices continued to increase at modest rates. Transportation input
prices fell and fewer transportation firms raised their selling prices. Construction materials prices
were up in late August and September, and many builders expected further increases. Contacts in
most industries expected prices to rise moderately going forward. Increased wage pressures were

 X-4
noted in a few industries, particularly manufacturing, restaurants, transportation, and energy. Some
contacts continued to report a short supply of workers, particularly for drivers, construction, and
skilled manufacturing positions.

 XI-1 ELEVENTH DISTRICT—DALLAS The Eleventh District economy grew at a moderate pace over the past six weeks. Manufacturers
mostly reported increases in demand, and retail and automobile sales expanded at a pace in line with the
prior report. Demand for nonfinancial services generally improved and real estate activity remained solid.
The energy sector continued to grow, and agricultural conditions improved. Upward price pressures
eased slightly and employment held steady or increased. Outlooks remained optimistic across the board. Prices Most responding firms said prices held steady over the last six weeks, with fewer reports
of firms raising prices than in the previous report. Professional business services firms said rates were
unchanged over the reporting period (though higher than a year ago), and retailers and auto dealers also
noted steady prices. Changes in selling prices in the manufacturing sector were mixed. Prices for
construction materials such as fabricated metals, concrete, brick, and glass rose, while prices for primary
metals, transportation equipment, and high-tech products held steady and lumber prices fell slightly. Food
producers continued to note selling price increases due to rising input costs. These contacts said selling
prices will likely level out before raw materials prices do, and companies will try to cut costs elsewhere. The price of West Texas Intermediate crude oil fell over the course of the reporting period, as
global supply growth met softer international demand. The price of natural gas stabilized at just under
$4 per MMbtu over the past six weeks after falling during the prior reporting period. Retail gasoline and
diesel prices continued to fall. Labor Market Employment at responding firms held steady or increased, and labor market
tightness continued to be mentioned by numerous contacts. Reports of hiring came from staffing and
transportation services firms and construction-related manufacturers (such as fabricated metal, cement,
and brick producers). Legal firms noted a seasonal increase in headcounts from adding new fall
associates. A retailer noted difficulty in hiring in the areas of the state where the energy sector was
booming, and an auto dealer said they were losing mechanics and technicians to energy companies in the
Eagle Ford region to repair oilfield trucks. A shortage of specialized heavy construction workers and
chemical engineers was causing some delays in announced construction projects in the petrochemicals
industry. Residential construction contacts also noted persistent labor shortages; one contact saw some
easing while another said that in Houston, a few builders were placing cameras and armed guards at their
construction sites to prevent poaching of workers. Energy contacts saw no relief from the tight labor
market, especially in West Texas. Several contacts continued to report upward wage pressures. Staffing services firms said
candidates were often receiving multiple offers, which caused some firms to increase wages to stay
competitive. Some primary and fabricated metals manufacturers noted higher wages; increases as high as

 XI-2
30 percent over the last six months were seen in some trades, according to contacts. High-tech
manufacturers said wage pressures remained elevated for some higher-skilled workers. Manufacturing Most manufacturers noted an increase in demand since the previous report and
outlooks were largely positive. Primary metals producers said demand grew but at a slower pace, possibly
due to seasonal factors. Demand for fabricated metals strengthened and was up notably from last year,
with contacts pointing to increased demand from a number of segments of the construction industry.
Demand was mostly flat for lumber, cement, glass, and brick manufacturers, although a couple of
contacts noted a pickup in demand for these products in the Dallas area. Contacts in high-tech manufacturing reported demand was stable or higher over the past six
weeks. Respondents expect strong demand growth for the next three to six months, primarily due to
expansion in capacity by cloud and mobile computing providers. Food producers said demand increased
somewhat over the reporting period, mostly due to seasonal factors, but was largely unchanged from a
year ago. Petrochemical producers reported slightly lower production as various repairs and upgrades to
existing facilities had fallen behind schedule. Firms in this sector noted some delays in announced
construction projects because of worker and materials shortages as well as delays in securing permits.
Refinery utilization rates along the Gulf Coast were strong, and outlooks through year-end remained
positive among refiners and chemical producers. Retail Sales Retail sales increased at about the same pace as during the prior reporting period. A
continued boost from back-to-school shopping was the most-noted driver of recent sales growth, and
demand was also up year-over-year. Contacts’ outlooks for the remainder of the year were optimistic, and
they expect demand during the holiday shopping season to be slightly stronger this year than in 2013. Automobile sales continued to increase, at a pace similar to the prior reporting period. Demand
was up year-over-year. Contacts were satisfied with inventory levels and said they had plenty of vehicles.
Outlooks for the rest of the year were positive, although one contact noted that an increase in interest rates
could drastically change the landscape of their industry. Nonfinancial Services Most nonfinancial services firms reported demand was up from six
weeks ago, and outlooks were optimistic. Staffing firms generally noted demand increases, with one
contact saying the past two weeks were the company’s strongest all year. Contacts said all skill levels
were in high demand, and that demand for low-skilled workers had increased. Direct hiring led demand
growth, although one contact said contract and temporary worker demand will likely increase as the
Affordable Care Act’s effects continue to be felt. The accounting sector continued to operate at high
levels of activity and demand for these services increased further over the reporting period. Demand for
legal services increased as well, with particular strength coming from corporate work.

 XI-3 Transportation services firms said overall cargo volumes increased slightly since the previous
report. Small-parcel cargo volumes increased, with retail trade (led by e-commerce) remaining the
strongest source of growth. Railroad contacts noted a rise in petroleum and motor vehicle shipments. Air
cargo volumes continued to trend upward as increased international air cargo demand outpaced a decline
in domestic demand. Outlooks were cautiously optimistic. Airlines reported passenger demand fell over the reporting period due to seasonal factors, but was
up from a year ago. Domestic demand remained stronger than international demand. Construction and Real Estate The District’s housing sector remained solid overall. Single-
family home sales were flat to down over the reporting period. Land prices continued to trend upward at
the same pace; however, the pace of home price appreciation slowed, with one respondent noting a slight
pushback in pricing from buyers. Contacts said a few homebuilders were expanding production of more-
affordable high-density housing. Robust apartment demand kept occupancy high and rent growth solid
despite elevated levels of multifamily construction activity. Single- and multifamily housing contacts
were optimistic in their near-term outlooks. Office leasing activity increased in Dallas and Austin and held steady at high levels in Houston.
Contacts noted moderate growth in rents. Demand for industrial space remained strong and vacancy rates
remained tight in most major metro areas. Construction activity stayed elevated, and outlooks were
mostly optimistic. Financial Services Demand for loans accelerated slightly since the last report. Financing for
mergers and acquisitions as well as capital expenditures rose in recent weeks. Lending to medium-sized
businesses continued to grow, and financing activity for commercial real estate development remained
robust. Mortgage lending grew slightly, but contacts noted that a low supply of housing was constraining
growth. Contacts noted increased optimism among clients. Energy Demand for oilfield services in the District continued to grow, although activity in the
Permian Basin in September was muted temporarily by flooding. Growth in Texas drilling activity was
again concentrated outside of the major basins. Outlooks for the rest of the year remained optimistic and
were largely unchanged from the prior reporting period. Agriculture District drought conditions eased slightly over the past six weeks, although more
than half of Texas remained in a drought that has plagued the state since the end of 2010. Harvesting of
row crops like cotton and corn continued, and crop conditions were slightly better than last year. Cattle
prices continued to be at a record high while feed prices fell, boosting profitability for cattle producers.
Domestic and export beef demand remained strong despite retail beef prices reaching a record high in
August. Improved moisture conditions overall have increased optimism for winter crops and expanded
prospects for cattle herd rebuilding.

 XII - 1 TWELFTH DISTRICT–SAN FRANCISCO
Summary Economic activity in the Twelfth District continued to improve moderately during the reporting
period of mid-August through late September. Overall price and wage inflation remained modest. Retail sales
grew slightly, and demand for business and consumer services increased moderately. Overall manufacturing
activity picked up, while agricultural conditions were mixed. Real estate activity advanced, but growth in the
residential sector varied across the District. Loan demand increased moderately.
Prices and Wages Overall price inflation remained modest during the reporting period. Contacts reported that consumers
are very price conscious. A shortage of cattle drove up beef prices, and the California drought boosted nut
prices. Although operating costs, commodity costs, and packaging costs in the wholesale food industry
increased slightly, contacts reported that competition prevented these cost increases from being passed on to
retail prices for most food items. Electric utility input prices increased modestly during the reporting period.
Prices in the technology sector decreased for both businesses and consumers, driven by competitive pressures
and technological advances. Prices of certain building supplies, including wallboard, wood, cement, and
insulation increased a bit. Contacts reported that restaurant prices increased slightly in July and August in
some states in response to minimum-wage increases. Las Vegas hotel room rates for August were higher than
in any August since 2007. In general, wages continued to increase at a modest pace. Most contacts reported that wages and
salaries were up about 2½ percent to 3 percent compared with last year. Wages for software developers, for
workers in skilled trades, and, in some areas, for experienced construction workers increased faster. Declines
in defense spending led some aerospace manufacturers to institute greater employee cost-sharing on benefits.
Retail Trade and Services Overall retail sales grew slightly during the reporting period. Sales of higher-end clothing picked up,
but somewhat less than respondents expected. Food sales increased a bit, and contacts reported that grocery
inventories were stable. However, the droughts in California and other parts of the West resulted in lower-

 XII - 2
quality produce. Revenue at hobby game stores showed strong growth. Contacts characterized consumers as
still cautious in their spending habits but expect retail demand to strengthen further soon. Demand for business and consumer services increased moderately. Demand for legal services picked
up in some areas, in connection with rising real estate activity. Demand for advertising services declined, but
businesses increased spending on cloud computing services. Contacts reported that industry leaders expect
information technology spending to accelerate in 2015, driven by spending on big data and security services,
as well as on cloud computing. Casual dining picked up in August, the first monthly increase in sales in that
segment this year. Contacts expect continued slow growth of casual dining in the coming months. Las Vegas
year-to-date visitor volume increased moderately over 2013. Total occupied room nights and occupancy
percentage at Las Vegas hotels climbed. Manufacturing Overall District manufacturing activity picked up during the reporting period. Worldwide
semiconductor sales were up markedly over the previous year. Recent sales of manufactured steel and
recycled metals also were up over the same period a year earlier. Revenue for biotech and pharmaceutical
manufacturers grew notably since the previous reporting period. Industry contacts detected stronger demand
for pharmaceuticals stemming from the increase in the number of insured people, and they expect healthy
earnings growth to continue. Demand for medical equipment was also very strong. Aerospace and defense
capacity utilization declined since the prior reporting period. In contrast, contacts reported that capacity
utilization among commercial aircraft producers increased to record levels.
Agriculture and Resource-related Industries Agricultural conditions in the District were mixed during the reporting period. Continuing droughts in
California and parts of Washington and Idaho elevated water costs and depressed harvests of cotton and
various grains, vegetables, nuts, and legumes. Farmers increased the number of acres lying fallow and reduced
herd sizes. However, low corn prices and stable fertilizer and machinery prices benefited dairy and feedlot
operations. Milk prices increased, and export demand for hay from the West Coast reached an historical peak.
Sales of electricity and natural gas to the manufacturing sector have increased markedly since the beginning

 XII - 3
of the year. Agricultural land prices remained relatively high.
Real Estate and Construction Real estate activity in the District advanced, but growth trends in the residential sector were uneven
across the District. Contacts reported that in a few areas, prices of single-family homes accelerated, while in
other areas the pace of price increases declined. In a few areas, year-to-date single-family housing starts were
down compared with the same period in 2013. Sales of single-family homes were stable during the reporting
period. Overall, multifamily construction and development activity remained strong. Commercial office
demand was robust in San Francisco and Silicon Valley, and rents increased compared with the previous
reporting period. In Los Angeles, commercial real estate construction picked up.
Financial Institutions Overall loan demand increased moderately since the previous reporting period. In some areas where
lending activity had been stagnant for a long time, demand for commercial and industrial and commercial real
estate loans picked up. Other areas that had already been experiencing growth in loans showed continued
expansion. Asset quality improved since the previous reporting period, and contacts reported that current
overall loan performance was comparable to that seen before the recession. Competition among lenders for
customers with high-quality credit remained intense. Contacts reported that this competition had depressed
interest rates on loans, reducing net interest margins and profitability.

