 For use at 2:00 p.m., E.D.T. Wednesday July 18, 2012
Summary of Commentary on ____________________ Current Economic Conditions By Federal Reserve District July 2012

SUMMARY OF COMMENTARY ON CURRENT ECONOMIC CONDITIONS BY FEDERAL RESERVE DISTRICTS July 2012

 TABLE OF CONTENTS
SUMMARY ............................................................................................................................... i
First District - Boston..............................................................................................................I-1
Second District - New York .................................................................................................. II-1
Third District - Philadelphia ................................................................................................ III-1
Fourth District - Cleveland .................................................................................................. IV-1
Fifth District - Richmond ...................................................................................................... V-1
Sixth District - Atlanta ......................................................................................................... VI-1
Seventh District - Chicago ................................................................................................. VII-1
Eighth District - St. Louis ................................................................................................. VIII-1
Ninth District - Minneapolis ................................................................................................ IX-1
Tenth District - Kansas City ................................................................................................. X-1
Eleventh District - Dallas ..................................................................................................... XI-1
Twelfth District - San Francisco ........................................................................................ XII-1

 i SUMMARY* Reports from most of the twelve Federal Reserve Districts indicated that overall
economic activity continued to expand at a modest to moderate pace in June and early July. The
Atlanta, St. Louis, and San Francisco Districts reported modest growth, while Boston, Chicago,
Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas described economic activity as advancing moderately.
The New York, Philadelphia, and Cleveland Districts noted that activity continued to expand, but
at a slower pace since the last report, while Richmond cited mixed activity. Retail sales increased slightly in all reporting Districts except Boston and Cleveland,
where sales were categorized as flat, and New York, where sales softened. Of the Districts that
saw an increase in activity, most noted strength in auto sales. In particular, auto dealers noted
that demand for fuel-efficient vehicles continued to support sales. Tourism activity remained
strong according to contacts in the New York, Richmond, Atlanta, Minneapolis, and San
Francisco Districts. All District housing market reports were largely positive as sales and construction levels
increased and home inventories declined. Rental markets continued to strengthen with rising
rents being reported in Boston, New York, Atlanta, Chicago, and Dallas. Commercial real estate
leasing and construction continued to improve as demand for multifamily units increased in
Atlanta, Chicago, and San Francisco. However, both New York and Richmond noted a
slowdown in commercial activity, while Philadelphia and Dallas held steady. Manufacturing activity continued to expand slowly in most Districts, and Cleveland,
Atlanta, Chicago, and Kansas City cited slight increases in production levels. However, several
Districts reported a deceleration in new orders, and the Philadelphia and Richmond Districts
reported declines in shipments and orders. Demand for nonfinancial services remained generally
stable in most regions. Richmond noted strong sales among professional, scientific, and
technical firms, while Dallas noted strength in energy, legal, and audit-related services.
Transportation reports were generally positive, with Kansas City noting an uptick in trucking
activity, while Richmond reported increased port activity. * Prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta and based on information collected before July 9, 2012. This
document summarizes comments received from businesses and other contacts outside the Federal Reserve and is not
a commentary on the views of Federal Reserve officials.

 ii Demand for loans, particularly those related to real estate, grew modestly in most
Districts. However, both Cleveland and Richmond noted some weakness in loan activity. Credit
standards remained unchanged in New York, Richmond, and Kansas City, while credit quality
improved in Philadelphia, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco. Agricultural production and
pricing reports were mixed. While drought conditions have affected production in some
Districts, others noted favorable conditions. Chicago and Kansas City reported a significant
deterioration of corn crops, which has pushed up prices since the end of June. All Districts conveyed that input prices had stabilized in recent months. Price pressures
were described as easing in New York, Philadelphia, Atlanta, and San Francisco as energy costs
declined. Wage pressures remained modest, except for highly skilled workers in information
technology, health care, transportation, and manufacturing. Employment levels improved at a
tepid pace for most Districts. Overall, Districts reported that their contacts remained cautiously
optimistic about future business conditions.
Consumer Spending and Tourism Most Districts reported modest increases in retail spending on a year-over-year basis, but
many reported slower growth in recent months compared with earlier in the year; however,
Boston and Cleveland reported sales as flat, and New York cited softer sales. There were a few
reports that high summer temperatures negatively affected sales. Sales of big-ticket household
goods were strong in the Richmond, Chicago, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts, while sales were
reportedly flat for home furnishings and major appliances in the San Francisco District. Boston
reported that sales for furniture and electronics had slowed, and retailers in the New York
District reported that home goods sales were weak. Reports from luxury-goods retailers were
mixed. Firms in the Philadelphia, Atlanta, and Chicago Districts reported that sales of high-end
goods remained strong, while retailers in the Kansas City and San Francisco Districts indicated
demand had softened, and those in the Cleveland District noted that sales of luxury goods had
slowed. Most Districts reported that vehicle sales remained robust. Demand was high for fuel-
efficient vehicles in particular. Looking forward, merchants in the Boston and Philadelphia
Districts were concerned that economic uncertainty could result in restrained sales growth, while
retailers in the Cleveland District anticipated that the third quarter will be higher compared with
year-ago levels. Kansas City noted that merchants there expected further strengthening in the
coming months.

 iii Travel and tourism activity was reported as strong across several Districts. Hotel
occupancy rates and revenue per room were robust in many areas according to reports from New
York, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, and San Francisco. Attendance numbers were solid at
attractions in various Districts, including theme parks in Florida and New York’s Broadway
theaters. Richmond, Minneapolis, and San Francisco reported that natural disasters had
negatively affected bookings in some parts of their Districts. Dallas reported that demand for
international travel was strongest for South America and Mexico destinations. Atlanta shared
their contacts’ concerns about the potential impact of economic and financial stress abroad and
the effect it could have on international travel. That said, several Districts reported that the
outlook among the majority of hospitality contacts for the remainder of the summer is good as
hotel and convention bookings continued to exceed last year’s pace.
Real Estate and Construction Reports on residential housing markets remained largely positive. Sales were
characterized as improving in Philadelphia, New York, Richmond, Chicago, St. Louis, and
Minneapolis, while home sales increased in Boston, Cleveland, Atlanta, St. Louis, Minneapolis,
Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco. However, reports on sales were mixed in the New York
District, and gains in the Boston District eased from earlier in the year. New home sales were
described as disappointing in the Philadelphia District. Construction increased in the New York,
Atlanta, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts, while reports from the
Cleveland District said construction slowed. Most Districts reported declines in home
inventories. Homes prices have begun to stabilize in some markets and price increases were
noted in select markets. Boston and Atlanta noted that appraisals were coming in below market
prices. Rental markets continued to strengthen by most accounts. Rising apartment rents were
reported in the Boston, New York, Atlanta, Chicago, and Dallas Districts. Strong demand for
rental units spurred increases in multifamily construction in the San Francisco District.
Multifamily construction was described as strong in the Atlanta and Chicago Districts.
Apartment construction is expected to pick up over the next several months in the Dallas District. Recent activity in commercial real estate markets has been mixed. Modest improvements
were noted in Boston, Atlanta, and St. Louis and demand strengthened in the San Francisco
District. Softer conditions were reported in the New York and Richmond Districts, while

 iv
demand held steady in the Philadelphia and Dallas Districts. Nonresidential construction activity
varied as well. Construction activity increased modestly in the Minneapolis and Kansas City
Districts, while construction continued to gain momentum in the Boston District. Demand for
commercial construction rose in Chicago, while activity was described as much improved from a
year earlier in the Cleveland District. Construction was flat in the Atlanta District on a year-
over-year basis, while activity had softened in recent months in the Richmond District. Overall,
the outlook among commercial real estate contacts and contractors was slightly positive.
Manufacturing Manufacturing continued to expand in June and early July in most Districts, but at a more
modest pace compared with earlier in the year. Several Districts reported that new orders had
moderated since the last report, but the Philadelphia, St. Louis, and Kansas City Districts were
more optimistic that new orders would rebound. The Philadelphia and Richmond Districts
however, reported declines in shipments and orders. The passing of a transportation bill through
Congress led contacts in the Philadelphia District to express interest in increasing their capital
spending. Capacity utilization rates at refineries and petrochemical manufacturing facilities held
steady in the San Francisco District, with weaker domestic demand being offset by growing
exports. Meanwhile, manufacturers in the Dallas District reported operating at above 90 percent
utilization rates to catch up with below-normal inventory levels. The San Francisco District noted continued strength in semiconductor production, while
the Dallas District said sales at high-tech manufacturing had decreased since the last report.
Expectations from high-tech manufacturers in the Dallas District were that growth would remain
flat to slightly weaker through year’s end, a change from earlier in the year when most contacts
anticipated a pick-up in the second half. Overall, most Districts reported a moderation of
expectations among their manufacturing contacts. Hiring at manufacturing firms continued to vary by District. Kansas City said that fewer
plant managers were planning to hire, while the St. Louis District reported plans for plant
expansions later in the year. The Dallas District cited particular strength in food production,
citing contacts who said they planned to add several new workers. However, makers of food
products in the Philadelphia District noted a falloff in demand. Cleveland and Chicago noted
that automobile production remained a source of strength, with contacts from the Chicago
District reporting that there was an increase in research and development activity.

 v
Nonfinancial Services Demand for nonfinancial services was generally stable to slightly stronger since the
previous report. Richmond noted that revenue improvement was strong among professional,
scientific, and technical firms. Strength in energy, legal, and audit-related services was noted in
the Dallas District. Advertisers in the Philadelphia and San Francisco Districts reported strong
revenues, and consulting and advertising contacts in the Boston District noted steady activity.
Richmond and San Francisco reported that restaurants were busy, while food service contacts in
Atlanta reported that demand had softened a bit. Transportation contacts reported that activity was generally positive. In the Atlanta and
Dallas Districts, rail contacts reported strong shipments of petroleum and motor vehicles and
equipment. The Richmond District reported increases in port activity with container volumes
and tonnage at or near record levels. Input from logistics and trucking contacts was mixed. The
Cleveland and Atlanta Districts noted softening volumes and less-robust forecasts for the
remainder of the year. Kansas City’s report cited an uptick in trucking activity, while San
Francisco’s report cited moderating growth in trucking.
Banking and Financial Services Overall loan demand grew modestly in most Districts. New York indicated no change,
while Richmond observed flat-to-weakening loan demand. Chicago, Kansas City, Dallas, and
San Francisco noted increased commercial and industrial lending, but lending in that sector
decreased somewhat in the New York District and was characterized as soft in Cleveland and
Atlanta. Most Districts reported an increase in mortgage lending, with Dallas noting especially
strong demand and a healthy backlog of loans. Refinancing of mortgage loans was steady or
increasing in New York, Cleveland, Richmond, and Chicago, but Philadelphia noted a recent
slowdown. Kansas City and Dallas noted some improvement in lending for agriculture and
commercial real estate. The Atlanta, Chicago, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts observed
steady-to-increasing demand for consumer credit, especially for auto loans, while consumer loan
demand was somewhat weaker in Kansas City and little changed in Cleveland. Contacts in the New York, Richmond and Kansas City Districts reported that credit
standards remained largely unchanged. Cleveland reported some loosening of auto lending
guidelines, while San Francisco indicated credit standards were somewhat restrictive for
businesses and consumer loans. Philadelphia, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco noted

 vi
general improvements in credit quality. Delinquency rates held steady or declined in the New
York and Cleveland Districts. Banking contacts in the Cleveland, Atlanta, Dallas, and San
Francisco Districts noted stiff competition for quality loan customers. The Chicago District
noted uncertainty over the effects of U.S. fiscal policy actions was reducing their customers’
demand for credit. Likewise, Dallas reported a slightly more pessimistic outlook than the
previous Beige Book due in part to European debt issues and regulatory and political uncertainty.
Agriculture and Natural Resources Agricultural conditions were mixed since the previous report. Several Districts noted
areas of increased drought resulting in stress to crops and livestock, while rainfall provided
needed moisture to parts of the Atlanta District. With high heat and drought cited as the cause,
the Chicago and Kansas City Districts reported concerns for their corn and soybean crops, while
the Minneapolis District reported that favorable weather conditions contributed to their corn and
soybean crops doing well. The Kansas City and Dallas Districts reported drought-stressed
pasture conditions, although the Dallas District noted much better crop conditions than this time
last year. The St. Louis and Kansas City Districts reported better-than-expected yields for the
winter wheat crop nearing completion. The San Francisco District noted further sales growth for
many crop and livestock products, attributed in part to overseas growth, but suggested that this
source of growth was decreasing. The Kansas City District cited rising export demand as the
reason some hog producers expanded production. Agricultural price reports were mixed. While
June corn prices were reported down on a year-over-year basis, reports of corn crop deterioration
was noted by the Chicago and Kansas City Districts as having pushed corn prices sharply higher
since the end of June. Several Districts reported that energy exploration activity had increased, with offshore
prospects being aided by recent lease sales. Regions where coal production is prevalent noted
that extraction had decreased over the last year with electricity generation shifting to natural gas.
Contacts in many Districts shared expectations that natural gas prices will remain low in the near
future. Corn producing regions reported that ethanol processing had decreased in response to the
higher corn prices.

 vii
Employment, Wages, and Prices Employment levels grew at a tepid pace for most Districts since the last report. The
Boston, Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago, and Dallas Districts said employment levels were flat to up
slightly, with most contacts citing U.S. fiscal policy uncertainty or weak demand for their
conservative approach to hiring. Kansas City said employers were reluctant to increase wages or
hire full-time staff until economic uncertainty diminishes. A Richmond District employment
agency contact noted an increase in temporary employment turning into permanent positions
since the last report. The Atlanta District noted some smaller chain stores with low price points
were expanding and hiring at a significant pace. Several Districts noted that employers were
having difficulty filling highly skilled positions. Many Districts noted that wage pressures were minimal since the last report. Wage
increases were mostly concentrated in highly skilled workers in information technology, health
care, transportation, some professional services, and highly skilled manufacturing workers,
according to reports from the Atlanta, Chicago, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts. Price inflation was modest across most areas of the country. Lower input prices for
various commodities were mentioned across most Districts and resulted in expectations of stable
input prices in the coming months. Retailers and manufacturers in the Richmond, Chicago, and
Dallas Districts noted a decline in cotton prices. Manufacturers in the Cleveland, Chicago,
Kansas City, and Dallas Districts mentioned that steel and scrap metal prices have moderated.
The decline in energy prices was mentioned in the Atlanta, Chicago, and Dallas reports as
contributing to lower cost expectations. However, contractors and building contacts in the
Philadelphia, Richmond, and Kansas City Districts noted increases in the cost of building supply
materials. Richmond contractors said they were able to pass these costs through, but
homebuilders in Philadelphia mentioned limited ability to do so.

 I-1 FIRST DISTRICT – BOSTON Economic activity in the First District continues to expand at a moderate pace.
Residential real estate sales increased relative to last year and commercial construction activity
continues to gain momentum.. Sales in the retail sector remain about flat, while the
manufacturing and business services sectors continue slow growth. Contacts report that their
costs and prices are increasing very moderately, if at all. Firms are generally not laying off
workers, but most are also not engaged in substantial hiring. Many contacts cite uncertainty
regarding future macroeconomic conditions as impinging on their outlook, and some contacts
cite this as a reason for postponing investment or other decisions.
Retail First District retail contacts report that sales range from slightly below to slightly above
year-ago levels. Consumer spending continues to be strong for adult clothing and shoes, but
spending on furniture and electronics has recently slowed relative to the pace earlier in the year. All of the contacts report that prices seem to be holding steady, and they do not
anticipate much inflation or price volatility in the near future. The contacts continue to expect
low positive single digit percentage sales increases for 2012, although the final results will
depend on holiday shopping. Many contacts feel that there is a lot of macroeconomic uncertainty
and expect aggregate growth to be sluggish through the rest of 2012 and into early 2013.
Manufacturing and Related Services According to our contacts, the manufacturing sector in the First District continues to
grow. However, virtually all of the contacts express some concern about the outlook. Of the 8 firms contacted in this round, 2 report an actual fall in sales relative to year-ago
levels, 2 report an increase in growth and the remaining four report slower growth. The firm that
reports the largest increase in growth, a manufacturer of fitness equipment, said that sales grew
20% in the first quarter overall but there was a sharp slowdown in March and April followed by
a partial recovery in May and June. A manufacturer of electrical equipment said that one area of
notable growth is residential real estate, in which they recorded multiple months of double digit
growth. Of course, sales in that business line are 65% off their peak during the housing boom. None of the contacts report any major revisions to their hiring plans. Five of the contacts
said they are either not hiring or not hiring much; one said they are hiring and another said it
would all depend on the evolution of sales growth. A producer of semiconductor manufacturing
equipment reports that it had limited merit pay increases to very high performing employees. Six of our contacts report no revisions to their capital plans and two report that they plan
to hold off of previously planned increases. A fitness equipment manufacturer reports that their

 I-2
original plan had been to increase investment by 5%, but now they plan to keep it at last year’s
levels. A contact at an electrical equipment manufacturer notes that they plan to hold off on
capital expenditures despite their strong balance sheet and considerable liquidity. The key word for the overall outlook is uncertainty. In general, our contacts use phrases
such as “sitting on the sidelines” and “waiting for the uncertainty to play out.” Not everyone is
completely downbeat. One contact, from the toy industry, reports a “better feeling” than a year
ago. There is uncertainty about domestic policy, including the “fiscal cliff” and health care, as
well as uncertainty about macroeconomic performance in Europe and China
Commercial Real Estate Contacts in the First District report that conditions continue to slowly improve in the
commercial property market. All contacts, especially those in Boston, note that financing
conditions are very favorable for high quality projects. The office market in New England
remains flat. Contacts in Boston report difficulty attracting tenants to lower-quality office space
and expect vacancy rates to remain steady in the coming months. Contacts believe that the office
market is unlikely to improve until the national economy begins to experience robust growth.
Construction activity throughout the First District continues to gather momentum, but is mostly
limited to the multifamily housing, medical, and higher education sectors. According to contacts,
the retail sector is in a holding pattern throughout the First District. Overall, contacts believe that
conditions in the New England commercial real estate market are somewhat improved in the last
year and, barring a macroeconomic disruption, expect this tepid improvement to continue for the
rest of the year.
Residential Real Estate Home and condo sales in the First District showed significant year-over-year increases in
May, continuing the trend of the last several months. Contacts attribute the gains to low interest
rates, affordable prices, and pent-up demand. A contact from the Greater Boston area adds that
improving economic conditions and raising rents in the area have also contributed to sales
activity. The consecutive months of growth have improved confidence in the market, but
contacts note a recent decrease in momentum compared to previous months. According to most
contacts, the pace of market activity has declined slightly, which may be revealed by sales
figures in the coming months. Some contacts note that an unseasonably warm winter and spring
provided an early boost to sales in the first half of the year, which may account for some
softening in activity during the past month. Meanwhile, price changes are mixed across the
region. Maine experienced an increase of approximately 7 percent relative to last year while the
median sale price in Rhode Island slipped at least 8 percent. Other states in the region

 I-3
experienced relatively modest changes in price levels from a year ago. Some contacts express
concern over appraisal practices, claiming banks appraisers are underestimating home values.
Inventory levels declined throughout much of the region, particularly in the Greater Boston area. As the number of months of consecutive growth continues, contacts have become more
optimistic about the direction of the market. Nonetheless, contacts remain cautious about
recovery and believe it could be easily derailed by deterioration in economic conditions.
Contacts predict continued year-over-year growth in sales for the next several months, but
possibly at a slower rate than in previous months while prices are expected to stabilize.
Selected Business Services Consulting and advertising contacts in the First District report a steady but generally
positive second quarter of 2012. No firm had a bad quarter, but few of the contacts are
particularly excited about their results. Contacts report that potential clients are unwilling to
commit to projects and instead choose to hold their cash and wait for clearer signals regarding
the direction of the economy and the resolution of political and policy questions. Some contacts
report a strong second quarter, generally due to factors specific to the industries they primarily
serve. Contacts report little to no inflationary pressure and were generally not concerned about
their rate of cost growth (primarily salaries). Firms report cost growth ranging from zero to “in
line with inflation,” and only a few firms report any change in the prices they charge. Of those
that did increase their rates, increases range from 2 to 4 percent relative to last year. Employment growth is weak as many firms report wanting to wait for more demand
before hiring, although no firm reports downsizing. Half of all firms report no change in
payrolls, while the other half report increases ranging from 2 to 5 percent year-over-year. Firms
that report hiring during the second quarter generally expect to continue hiring at a modest pace,
while those that did not hire in the second quarter plan to leave employment levels unchanged for
the remainder of 2012. Most contacts are cautiously optimistic about the rest of 2012, and more bullish about
2013. An overarching theme of the contacts’ comments is uncertainty. Contacts are primarily
concerned with uncertainty regarding general macroeconomic conditions, the European debt
crisis, and politics and the upcoming election.

 II-1 SECOND DISTRICT--NEW YORK Growth in the Second District’s economy has slowed since the last report, though labor
market conditions have continued to improve. Price pressures have receded further in both
manufacturing and other industry sectors, and retail prices have been stable. Non-manufacturing
contacts generally report that conditions have held steady in recent weeks, while manufacturers
report flat to weaker activity. Retailers generally report weaker results for May and June, but auto
dealers indicate that sales activity was fairly robust; tourism activity has continued to be steady and
strong. Home sales markets have shown signs of improvement, while rental markets have remained
firm; however, commercial real estate markets have slowed modestly. Finally, bankers report a
leveling off in loan demand, no change in credit standards, and further declines in delinquency rates
on commercial loans and mortgages.
Consumer Spending Retailers report that sales activity has been somewhat softer since the last report. One major
retail chain indicates that sales were down noticeably from a year earlier, with home goods sales
especially weak. Another major chain reports that sales slowed in June and were running somewhat
below plan but still up marginally from a year earlier; however, some improvement was noted during
the first few days of July. Retail contacts in upstate New York report that sales were mixed in May
but picked up in June, again buoyed by Canadian shoppers. Retail prices continue to be described as
steady. Inventories are generally said to be at or slightly above desired levels. Auto dealers in upstate New York report positive results. Sales of new vehicles were up
noticeably from a year ago in May and are projected to be up modestly in June. Leasing activity and
business at dealers’ service departments have been robust since the last report. Dealers also report
strong sales and elevated prices for used vehicles. Wholesale and retail credit conditions remain
favorable, though one contact reports that banks have reined in lending for used vehicles. Tourism activity has remained robust since the last report. New York City hotels indicate that
revenues per room were up 6-7 percent from a year ago in May and that very preliminary figures for

 II-2
June suggest similar gains. This gain reflects increased occupancy rates, which have been running
above 90 percent, as well as 3-4 percent increases in average room rates. Attendance at Broadway
theatres was generally steady in May and June and up slightly from a year earlier, while revenue was
up more than 10 percent, due to rising ticket prices.
Construction and Real Estate Housing markets across much of the District have improved somewhat since the last report,
while rental markets have continued to strengthen. Both the volume of Manhattan apartment sales
and selling prices were steady in the second quarter; sales of smaller apartments have picked up and
account for a growing share of the market. Foreign buyers continue to be a fairly big component of
demand at the higher end of New York City’s market. Housing markets in Long Island and
Westchester County are reported to have improved in the second quarter: sales activity has picked
up, prices have stabilized, and the inventory of available homes, though high, has begun to decline.
Existing home sales and prices in northern New Jersey have been flat, hampered by a glut of
distressed properties on the market; but there has been a modest pickup in new home sales, as well as
construction starts. Real estate contacts in Western New York continue to report robust sales activity
and rising prices, despite “tough” mortgage conditions. New York City’s apartment rental market
continued to strengthen in the second quarter, with inventories tight and rents increasing—most
notably on smaller and lower priced apartments. Commercial real estate markets in and around New York City have shown some signs of
softening since the last report. Office vacancy rates in Manhattan, though steady for the second
quarter overall, rose in June; new leasing activity slowed, as renewals have accounted for a growing
share of leases. A major brokerage firm notes strong demand from tech firms—largely in
Manhattan’s Midtown South district—but sluggish demand from the financial sector. Office vacancy
rates in the areas around Manhattan—Long Island, Westchester, and northern New Jersey—edged up
in the 2nd quarter. Retail vacancy rates in New York City and northern New Jersey rose slightly in
the second quarter. Industrial vacancy rates also edged up in most markets.

 II-3
Other Business Activity Contacts across the District indicate that business activity has leveled off since the last report.
Business contacts in both manufacturing and other sectors indicate little change in general
conditions, but manufacturing contacts in New York State report a pullback in both new and unfilled
orders. In addition, business contacts in manufacturing and other sectors note a leveling off in input
prices and steady to declining selling prices. Still, labor market conditions across the District have been steady to slightly improved since
the last report. Both manufacturers and business contacts in other sectors say that they are adding
workers, on net. A major New York City employment agency specializing in office jobs reports that
hiring activity remains fairly subdued and is little changed from the spring; however, this contact also
notes that the pool of qualified workers is limited and appears to be dwindling gradually. Similarly, a
trucking industry contact notes that firms are having a difficult time finding qualified drivers.
Financial Developments Responses from small- to medium-sized banks in the District suggest no change in loan
demand overall. For specific loan categories, bankers report increased demand for home mortgage
loans, but decreased demand for commercial & industrial loans. Bankers also indicate steady to
increasing demand for refinancing. The vast majority of contacts report no change in credit
standards across all loan categories. Respondents indicate continued decreases in spreads of loan
rates over costs of funds for all loan categories—particularly commercial & industrial loans and
commercial mortgages. Respondents also note increasingly widespread declines in the average
deposit rate. Finally, bankers report a decrease in delinquency rates on commercial loans and
mortgages but steady rates on loans to the household sector.

 III-1 THIRD DISTRICT – PHILADELPHIA Overall, business activity in the Third District has continued to improve since the
previous Beige Book, although results were mixed. Manufacturing activity slowed somewhat.
Retail sales and auto sales continued to increase, but at paces that varied across sectors and
states. Third District banks have reported steady growth in lending and stronger credit quality
since the last Beige Book. Demand for new home construction held steady, and brokers report
improving sales of existing homes. Commercial real estate contacts report little change in current
demand, while on average service-sector firms report modest continued growth. Price pressures
have eased further in many sectors since the last Beige Book. The overall outlook appears somewhat more optimistic relative to the views expressed in
the last Beige Book, due in part to the slowdown experienced then and the subsequent positive
announcements regarding major new projects. Manufacturers’ expectations for the next six
months remain positive, while anticipated hiring and capital spending has increased further since
the previous Beige Book. Retailers, auto dealers, and financial firms remain positive, but
somewhat more cautious because of ongoing consumer uncertainty. Real estate and service-
sector firms are slightly more optimistic but continue to plan for slow growth through the
remainder of 2012. In general, business plans reflect caution, and business contacts express
perspectives based on a “new normal” of steady growth at a slower pace than previous
expansions. Manufacturing. Since the last Beige Book, Third District manufacturers have reported
declines in shipments and new orders. Gains – some seasonal – continued among the makers of
industrial machinery. Makers of food products, lumber and wood products, primary metals,
fabricated metals, electronic equipment, and instruments reported a falloff in demand. A few
contacts mentioned a slowdown of Marcellus shale activity as a factor in weaker demand. About eight out of 10 Third District manufacturers expect business conditions to improve
or stay the same during the next six months – reflecting a similar level of optimism as reported in
the last Beige Book. Optimism is represented in the major sectors cited above, except lumber and
fabricated metals. Furthermore, makers of lumber products specifically cited seasonal declines
for their weaker six-month expectation. Firms expressed greater expectations of future capital
spending and future hiring since the last Beige Book. Several contacts mentioned the need for a
new transportation authorization bill – subsequently passed by Congress after a three-year delay.

 III-2
That and recent announcements of deals to maintain and restart District refinery operations will
likely add to the general optimism. Retail. Third District retailers at major malls reported stronger year-over-year sales in
May than in April, while outlet centers reported lower growth in May and June than in previous
months. At malls, high-end goods, including Apple products and jewelry, did especially well.
Sales of children’s clothing were down year-over-year at outlet centers for the first time since
2007; typically a negative signal, this time it may reflect a delay in deep discounting of back-to-
school items that had already been discounted by this time last year. Retail contacts remain
cautiously optimistic. Auto sales moderated in Pennsylvania in June following strong sales in April and May,
which followed an unusually strong first quarter throughout the Third District. New Jersey
reported stronger auto sales in June after more modest growth in April and May. Industry
contacts report that fluctuating gas prices are delaying some purchases by elevating uncertainty
among buyers weighing their options between trucks and SUVs versus high-efficiency
automobiles. Very low borrowing costs for inventories continue to support dealers’ profitability,
while demand for dealer services and repairs remains low. The outlook for auto sales remains
generally positive, although dealers are concerned that increased consumer uncertainty will not
support further growth in sales through the third quarter. Finance. Contacts from the Third District’s financial sector report continued slow
improvement since the previous Beige Book. The very slow increase in demand is reflected in
uneven reports, with some lenders reporting increases primarily as gains in market share, while
others are shifting into and out of various lending segments. Bank contacts report frequent
requests from business borrowers for loan modifications, while home refinancings have slowed
recently. Most contacts report strong, improving credit quality as households and businesses pay
down debt early and build cash reserves. Many contacts report that businesses have adjusted to
the “new normal” and anticipate little new growth “through the election and after.” Real Estate and Construction. Residential builders report little change in their level of
activity since the last Beige Book. Traffic remained relatively strong, but contract signings
remained elusive and weaker than in the first quarter. While uncertainty remains and recent sales
were disappointing, high levels of interest continue to encourage builders on their prospects over
the next few months. Contacts report a few new developments in select markets and limited

 III-3
hiring to facilitate strategic growth objectives. Residential brokers reported improving year-over-
year home sales in May, and inventory has fallen significantly over the past two years in most
markets. Bidding wars reported in a few markets for low-end homes signal that prices in those
markets have likely found a bottom. The outlook among builders and brokers remains cautiously
positive. Nonresidential real estate activity has changed little since the last Beige Book, with most
contacts indicating continued slow growth in demand for lease and new construction. Bidding for
the design and construction of new projects remains “cut-throat,” and margins remain tight for
most lease negotiations. Three significant groups of announcements – passage of the two-year
federal transportation bill, the various District refinery deals, and a new funding agreement for
construction of an urban development project in downtown Allentown – have raised expectations
for stronger growth of nonresidential construction activity in the near future. The overall outlook
for nonresidential real estate has brightened somewhat since the last Beige Book. Services. Most Third District service-sector firms continue to report little change from
the slow but positive growth reported in the last Beige Book. One contact captured the thoughts
of many by describing the economy as “orderly, functioning, nothing exciting.” Staffing firms
report some seasonal uptick in hiring, but little change in overall demand or expectations. A few
firms report opportunistic investments to capture market share, enter new markets, or take
advantage of growth in emerging economies, such as Brazil. Election-year advertising has been a
boon for some firms. However, election-year uncertainty and the slowdown in Europe and China
have sidelined investment plans for many firms for the remainder of the year. Overall, service-
sector firms retain a positive, but cautious, outlook for growth. Prices and Wages. Price levels have eased further since the previous Beige Book and
remain generally constrained. Falling gas prices have contributed to the recent broader price
easing. Manufacturing firms have reported lower cost factors since the last Beige Book. Home
builders continue to report rising cost pressures for materials and limited ability to pass these
costs along. Retailers also continue to report tight margins. Nearly all contacts report an ongoing
lack of wage pressures, other than for medical benefits. House prices have stabilized in many
areas for low-end homes but continue to fall for high-end homes.

 IV-1 FOURTH DISTRICT – CLEVELAND Economic activity in the Fourth District continued to expand since our last report, but at a
slower pace. On balance, manufacturers reported a slight rise in production. New-home
construction ticked down, while nonresidential builders saw stronger inquiries. Retailers and
auto dealers noted little change in sales during May. Wet shale gas drilling and production
increased, though the demand for coal has slowed. Freight transport volume moved lower. And
there was some easing in the demand for business credit. Little hiring was reported across industry sectors. Staffing-firm representatives indicated
that the largest numbers of job openings were found in healthcare and information technology.
Wage pressures are contained. Input prices were stable, apart from the volatility in residential
building materials. Manufacturing. On balance, District factories reported a slight increase in new orders
and production during the past six weeks, although we continued to hear reports about a
weakening in orders from European customers. Almost all of our respondents said that output
was above year-ago levels. The outlook by manufacturers was mixed. Respondents who sell
products to aerospace, auto, and energy companies expect moderate growth in the near term.
Other contacts are less certain about growth prospects than they had been a few months earlier.
Shipping volume by steel producers and service centers was flat or down slightly, with demand
being driven mainly by the transportation and energy sectors. Because of uncertainty about
market conditions in the upcoming months, many steel producers are in the process of lowering
their inventories. District auto production showed a moderate pick-up during May on a month-
over-month basis, while rising substantially from year-ago levels. Increased production year-
over-year was attributed mainly to the abatement of supply chain issues. Capacity utilization was at normal levels for most producers after adjusting for seasonal
factors. Capital budgets remain on track, with several contacts reporting that they intend to ramp
up spending during the second half of the year. Three manufacturers said that they are currently
planning capacity expansions. Raw material prices were stable or declined slightly. Most steel
makers lowered their prices; otherwise, producer prices held steady. Little change in payrolls
was noted, although attracting skilled workers remains difficult. Wage pressures are contained. Construction. Single-family home construction slowed a bit across the District relative
to the March/April time frame, although sales were higher compared to year-ago levels. The
outlook by homebuilders is less favorable than in our last report. They believe that the domestic
political climate and a lowering in consumer sentiment may hurt sales. Contracts were in all
price-point categories, except for the high-end. Buyers are looking to downsize and are
noticeably more cost conscious. A few reports indicated an uptick in new-home prices within
the Fourth District, though margins are still tight. Volatility in building material prices, which
began late in the first quarter, has persisted. Nonresidential contractors described current business conditions as good and much better

 IV-2
than a year ago. Inquiries were strong, which should help bolster near-term backlogs. Projects
were broad based, driven by education, healthcare, manufacturing, and multi-family housing.
Financing has become more readily available, except for speculative projects. The outlook is
fairly positive, but builders are concerned about the upcoming elections and events in Europe
and the impact they could have going into 2013. We heard reports of a slight rise in building
material prices. Even with the pickup in volume, residential and nonresidential builders have
been reluctant to hire additional workers. One builder commented that he is hesitant to add
workers until he has a backlog of two-to-three years. Residential and commercial subcontractors
have kept their billing rates steady. Consumer Spending. Retailers reported little change in sales during May on a month-
over-month basis, but sales were higher relative to year-ago levels. Increased revenues were
seen across retail categories. Two of our contacts noted that the warm winter weather did not
negatively impact consumer spending during the second quarter. Other respondents reported that
the rate of growth in purchases of luxury goods has decelerated during the past couple of months.
Retailers anticipate that revenues during the third quarter will be above prior-year levels, mainly
in the single digits. Vendor prices were fairly stable. Increases were attributed to higher costs
for off-shore labor. Little change was noted in store prices. Inventories continued to rise
modestly, but they were described as manageable. Capital spending for the year remains on
target. No hiring is anticipated, except at new stores, and wage pressures are contained. Auto dealers described new-vehicle purchases as steady during the past six weeks, when
compared to earlier in the second quarter. Any slowdowns were attributed to seasonal factors or
a poor inventory mix, although most dealers are satisfied with their inventory positions. Volume
was higher on a year-over-year basis. Dealers reported that sales of fuel-efficient vehicles and
trucks are doing particularly well. Leasing continued to grow in popularity. The outlook by
dealers for the remainder of 2012 is cautiously optimistic, with many expecting that total sales
for the year will equal or be slightly above 2011 levels. Purchases of used vehicles were fairly
steady on a year-over-year basis, although some dealers were unhappy with the quality of their
inventory. Hiring for sales and service positions was at a very slow pace. Difficulty in finding
qualified service technicians has resulted in some wage pressure. Banking. Bankers reported some easing in demand for business credit. Interest rates
remain competitive, especially for refinancings. Loan requests were broad based, with the
primary drivers being healthcare, multifamily construction, and shale-gas-related businesses.
Little change in consumer credit was noted. Products in highest demand were auto loans (direct
and indirect) and home equity lines of credit. Consumer credit pricing trended down slightly. In
the residential mortgage market, demand was described as stable to very strong. A high
percentage of applicants were looking to refinance, although a few contacts said that they are
beginning to see a shift in applications from refinancing to new purchase. Two bankers reported
some moderate loosening of auto lending guidelines, otherwise no changes were made to loan

 IV-3
application standards. Delinquencies were steady or declined and a few of our respondents cited
a drop in credit card delinquencies. Core deposits rose; consumers continued to transition from
time-deposit accounts to transaction accounts. One banker reported a moderate reduction in the
size of his workforce, while another said that his bank is considering a staff reduction due to the
low interest rate environment. Energy. Conventional oil and natural gas production was stable, with little change
expected in the upcoming weeks. Well-head prices for natural gas remain at very low levels,
while crude prices dropped slightly. Permitting in the Utica shale region of Ohio expanded. The
number of Utica permits issued by the Ohio Department of Natural Resources during the first
half of 2012 equaled the number issued for all of 2011. Drilling in the Utica shale has picked up,
mainly by large, out-of-state companies. Coal production this year is expected to fall below
2011 levels due primarily to reduced demand from electric utilities. Spot prices for metallurgical
and steam coals declined further. Production equipment and materials prices were flat, and
capital outlays were at projected levels. Significant layoffs were announced by one coal
producer due to the idling of some of its mining operations. Otherwise, little change was seen in
energy payrolls. Transportation. Freight transport volume was flat or moved slightly lower during May
on a month-over-month basis. Sectors driving demand included energy and transportation along
with seasonal products. The outlook for the remainder of 2012 remains positive, but most
respondents do not expect that growth will be as strong as they had predicted earlier in the year.
Costs associated with truck maintenance and diesel fuel prices continued to stabilize. Capital
spending for 2012 remains on plan. Outlays are allocated for the replacement of aging units and
adding capacity. However, some slowing in spending might occur due to concerns about
economic growth and industry consolidation. One contact noted that he is finalizing plans for a
terminal expansion in the eastern part of the District. Companies are hiring for replacement and
capacity expansion. Wage pressure exists due to a tightening of the driver pool.

 V-1 FIFTH DISTRICT–RICHMOND Overview. Fifth District contacts provided mixed reports on economic activity since our last
assessment. Retailers reported strengthening in consumer spending over the last month, and non-retail
firms cited increased activity, despite end-of-June power outages caused by severe storms. Bookings
remained solid according to tourism contacts, even as vacationers continued to hunt for bargains.
Residential real estate was described as slightly improved overall, although many areas continued to
experience weakness. Additionally, contacts at District ports noted some improvement in both import and
export volumes in recent months. In contrast, manufacturers reported a marked weakening in orders and
shipments in June, following strengthening earlier this year. Employment agencies cited a slight
slowdown in demand for workers, with the notable exception of high-skill occupations. Some softening
also occurred in commercial construction in recent months, mostly concentrated on the government side
of the market, with private demand remaining generally unchanged. Most lenders reported flat or
weakening demand for loans; however, a few bankers noted a pickup in mortgage and small business
lending. Price change was modest, although retail prices increased somewhat more rapidly than earlier. Manufacturing. District manufacturing weakened in June, following six months of moderate
expansion. A manufacturer of industrial machinery reported that business had slowed during the last
month and that major customers were withholding payments. A producer of gas turbines said that
economic problems in Europe had reduced his company’s exports by fifty percent. A textile producer
noted that his company had reduced capacity at a District plant by approximately twenty percent due to
decreased demand from domestic customers. Backlogs of orders had gone from four weeks to day-by-
day, according to a modular home manufacturer. He added that his company was not in a position to raise
prices to keep up with costs. A producer of electrical equipment mentioned that orders had decreased
noticeably during the last month, and that several large customers had scaled back their order projections
due to recent economic uncertainty. In addition, several aerospace manufacturers said that airlines were
making money but were not adding capacity. Our latest manufacturing survey indicated that prices of raw
materials and finished goods grew more slowly over the past month. Port activity in the District has continued to improve. Several contacts reported that both the
number of containers and total tonnage were at or near record levels. One official stated that recent import
growth, led by autos and paper products, has been closing the gap with the solid pace of export growth at
his port. Imports of auto parts and assembled autos were also helping push some ports to record levels.
Port officials noted that imports of machinery had increased, and exports of agricultural equipment were
showing unusual strength for this time of year. One port official noted a slight softening in May’s trade
activity, which was not expected to continue. A contact reported that freight carriers were having limited
success sustaining recently announced rate hikes, due to excess shipping capacity in the industry.

 V-2 Retail. Sales among District retailers strengthened since our last report, buttressed by big-ticket
purchases. Spending picked up for construction-related items, computers, and big-ticket items at home
and garden stores. Sales of automobiles also rose, according most dealers we contacted. However,
shopper traffic generally waned, according to our most recent survey, and inventory accumulation picked
up. Distributors of non-durable goods and building materials merchants reported improved revenues since
our last report. Grocery wholesalers also saw revenue gains. The store manager of a large sporting goods
establishment noted that sales were up, even with less traffic. He commented that cotton prices had
declined, although freight shippers continued to apply gas surcharges. Large areas of the mid-Atlantic lost
power for up to a week following strong storms at the end of June; a retailer in the Richmond area
reported having to place extra orders for generators as his stock depleted. He noted that bottled water sold
out quickly, and sales of battery operated lights and flashlights rose sharply. Retail prices increased at a
somewhat faster pace since our last report. Services. Non-retail services providers reported stable to slightly greater revenue gains in recent
weeks. In our most recent survey, revenue improvement was strongest among professional, scientific, and
technical firms. A financial services broker in central Virginia cited stable demand, but also noted a
general nervousness among his clients regarding "the European situation." Healthcare services providers
generally reported little change in demand. Following the Supreme Court's healthcare decision,
organizations continued to prepare for upcoming changes. A restaurant owner stated that the recent power
outage cost him “some product,” and reservations dropped because his phones were down for several
days. Price increases at services-providing firms slowed in recent weeks. Finance. We received varied reports on loan demand since our last assessment. Characteristic of
many anecdotes, a Maryland banker described his lending activity as “very slow, very flat,” with most
loans going to refinancing. A loan officer in North Carolina indicated that, while his pipeline was
slowing, real estate loan applications for construction projects had improved and even mortgage
applications were beginning to “show some life.” An official for a large bank noted modest growth in new
loans that were mostly from home buyers and small businesses, while consumer installment loans were
down. A banker in western Virginia stated that loan demand for capital improvements from local
governments was increasing as federal stimulus funds run out. Finally, an official for a midsize
commercial bank reported that his market area seemed to be "moving sideways," with borrowers shifting
among local banks to get refinancing at lower rates. Most bankers described their lending standards as
unchanged, although one lender noted that competitive pressures for commercial loans had caused some
easing in standards to capture high-quality loans. Real Estate. Residential real estate activity improved slightly since our last report. A Realtor in
the Charlotte area said that homes in the mid-price range were selling quickly in her area and that prices
were rising. An agent in the D.C. area indicated that properties in the $800,000-plus range were selling
somewhat more quickly, and added that continuing low inventory and low interest rates should contribute

 V-3
to strong sales throughout the summer. Moreover, a Maryland contact noted that trends in the housing
sector were generally showing some improvement, with sales and prices rising and active inventory
declining. However, a South Carolina Realtor reported that housing in coastal areas was not doing well,
which he attributed, in part, to an inventory overhang that was placing downward pressure on prices. A
North Carolina housing agent mentioned that the state had proposed a cut in unemployment benefits,
which threatened to put more stress on the slowing housing market. Commercial construction and real estate activity softened in recent months. While most
construction contacts reported little change in private sector activity, a solid majority noted a decline in
government demand. A Virginia developer described the industry as “sliding into a trough” over the last
few months and expected demand to remain weak through the summer and fall. Several contacts said that
retailers who were new to the area were most often opting to renovate existing sites rather than to build
new stores. A contractor in the D.C. area noted that both large and small chains were expanding and, in
some cases, building new stores. Several District Realtors noted that medical office buildings were an
exception to the overall weakness in their markets. A West Virginia Realtor noted a sharp increase in
interest in commercial buildings, but so far has had little success closing any deals. Contractors reported
that the cost of materials had increased, but they were able to pass through most of the increases. Labor Markets. Fifth District labor market activity was slightly weaker since our last report.
Several contacts at employment agencies characterized demand as somewhat slower, compared to a year
ago, with one agent noting that the “hiring surge” earlier in the year had slowed. Other employment
agents cited strong demand for workers with high-end IT and manufacturing skills. For example, a
Hagerstown agent said that, while overall demand for entry-level workers had tapered off, clients were
still looking for middle-management, supervisors and highly skilled workers. Similarly, a furniture
manufacturer reported difficulty finding skilled employees through temp agencies, which he attributed to
potential workers dropping out of the work force or signing up for unemployment. However, a contact for
an employment agency in North Carolina noted some improvement in hiring activity, with an increase in
temp-to-permanent status. According to our latest survey, wage gains in both the manufacturing and
service sectors were a bit more widespread than a month ago. Tourism. Hoteliers reported solid summer bookings since our last report. A contact on the outer
banks of North Carolina said tourist activity remained strong following an early "jump-start" to the
vacation season. She noted that restaurants in that location were busy, but that tips were a bit lower than
usual as families tried to vacation on a smaller budget. Hotel managers said vacationers continued to seek
bargains, and corporate and military travel had softened in part because of pending government actions
affecting spending decisions. A Virginia hotel contact reported a massive increase in bookings following
severe storms at the end of June, which caused local power outages that lasted past the July 4th holiday.

 VI-1 SIXTH DISTRICT – ATLANTA Summary. Reports from Sixth District business contacts indicated that economic
activity expanded at a modest pace in June and early July. The outlook among most firms
remained cautiously optimistic, although the majority of contacts acknowledged that risks were
weighted to the downside. Retailers noted that sales improved slightly, but cautioned that consumers appeared to be
conservative in their purchases. Auto dealerships reported continued strong sales. The hospitality
sector continued to experience steady growth as occupancy and room rates continued to rise.
Most brokers and homebuilders reported modest increases in sales and prices from very low
levels of activity, while contractors stated that the apartment sector remained strong.
Manufacturing firms indicated that production continued to expand, but at a much more
moderate pace than earlier in the year. Bank lending activity increased slightly for residential
real estate, while auto loan activity remained robust. Employment growth for the District was
subdued and employers remained cautious about future hiring. Lower energy prices have eased
pricing pressures for many firms and wage pressures remained modest. Consumer Spending and Tourism. District retail sales activity improved slightly in
June and early July, but merchants reported that consumers remained very conservative. Several
discount retailers and auto dealers signaled strong sales, while most department stores conveyed
more modest activity. Restaurant and food service contacts reported that demand had softened a
bit, but sales at higher-end establishments remained strong. Tourism activity and business travel remained strong and the outlook among contacts was
positive for the rest of the year. Occupancy and room rates were up in many parts of the District.
Recent reports on convention bookings and theme park attendance were also solid. Concerns
shared earlier in the year regarding rising fuel costs and the potential impact on travel and
spending had abated. However, concerns were shared about the potential impact of economic
and financial stress abroad and the effect that would have on international travel, especially to
Florida. There continued to be a drop off in cruise line bookings compared with earlier in the
year. Real Estate and Construction. District residential brokers indicated that home sales
were flat to slightly up compared with year-ago levels. Reports indicated strong sales at the
middle price points, while several brokers noted that declining inventories of foreclosed homes
were limiting investor-driven sales. Brokers also reported that the decline in inventories has
helped stabilize home prices in many areas. Most brokers reported that home prices were flat to

 VI-2
slightly up compared with a year earlier. However, contacts continued to note some downward
pressure on home prices resulting from low purchase offers and appraisals that were coming in
well-below asking and offering prices. The sales outlook among brokers remained positive with
most anticipating continued modest year-over-year home sales gains. District homebuilders reported that new home sales and construction rose modestly
compared with year-ago levels. The majority indicated that new home inventories declined
further on a monthly and an annual basis. Most builders reported that new home prices were flat
to slightly up compared with a year earlier. Price gains were strongest among Florida builders.
Contacts noted that multi-family construction remained robust. In the near-term, homebuilders
expect sales and construction to post modest gains compared with a year earlier. Apartment sector gains drove improvements in the District's commercial real estate
markets as occupancies rose and rental rates increased. The region's office and industrial sectors
saw small improvements as vacancy rates moderated somewhat; however, reports on District
retail real estate continued to be more mixed. The majority of commercial contractors said that
construction activity was flat on a year-over-year basis. The majority of contacts anticipate a
modest increase in private commercial construction activity through the remainder of the year,
while public works projects are expected to decelerate. Manufacturing and Transportation. Manufacturing contacts indicated that the pace of
new orders and production growth remained positive, but had moderated. A major European-
based aircraft manufacturer announced it will locate its first American manufacturing facility in
Alabama. A Florida manufacturer, closely tied to the construction industry, reported improved
but volatile business conditions based on increases in construction of multi-family dwellings,
healthcare facilities, and construction at ports. According to railroad contacts, intermodal activity continued to strengthen. Double-digit
increases in shipments of petroleum products, motor vehicles, and equipment were reported;
however, movement of grain, metallic ores, and nonmetallic minerals declined. A logistics
contact indicated slowing activity, particularly in the retail sector, and had lowered projections
slightly for the remainder of the year. Trucking contacts reported softening volumes, and
forecasts for the upcoming shipping season were slightly less robust than earlier in the year. Banking and Finance. Banking contacts noted some improvement in residential
mortgage lending. Auto loans continued to be a source of strength, while commercial and
industrial lending remained soft. Contacts reported significant competition among lenders for

 VI-3
credit-worthy customers. Bankers indicated that low interest rates, coupled with a limited
number of qualified borrowers, continued to squeeze bank margins. Employment and Prices. Regional employment growth remained positive, but muted.
Employers continued to cite uncertainty regarding future economic conditions as a reason for
limiting hiring and recent economic volatility appears to have exacerbated these anxieties. Small
stores with very low price points reported doing well and were expanding with significant hiring
plans across the District. Contacts continued to note difficulty in finding qualified applicants for
many highly-technical positions, and some reported problems finding candidates for some
lower-skilled positions. Many manufacturing and trucking contacts continued to note challenges
in attracting applicants with necessary skills. The skills mismatch problem has been especially
hard on low-wage individuals, according to community and economic development contacts. Firms responding in June to the Atlanta Fed's Business Inflation Expectations survey
reported a decline in unit cost expectations for the second consecutive month. Survey
respondents indicated that, on average, they expect labor and material costs to rise 1.7 percent
over the next 12 months. That number is down from 1.8 percent in May and 2.1 percent in April.
Firms also reported that their unit costs had risen 1.6 percent compared with this time last year,
which is unchanged from their assessment in May. Business contacts reported that lower prices
for natural gas and refined oil products were reportedly providing some cost relief. Wage
pressures remained modest, although some employers noted that they were increasing starting
pay for workers with high-demand skill sets. Natural Resources and Agriculture. Contacts continued to report that investment in
expanding and maintaining existing transportation infrastructure would be necessary to
accommodate increases in domestic oil and natural gas production. Contacts have noted a steady
increase in capital expenditures on refineries for upgrades and expansions. Deep-water permits
for offshore drilling have increased. Varying levels of drought conditions had expanded through
much of the District resulting in stress to some crops. However, the June tropical storm helped
some areas. Compared with last year, June’s prices paid to farmers were down for cotton and
corn while prices for oranges, beef, and soybeans increased.

 VII-1 SEVENTH DISTRICT—CHICAGO Summary. Economic activity in the Seventh District continued to expand at a moderate
pace in June and early July, although once again the pace of growth slowed from the previous
reporting period. Growth in consumer spending further moderated, while business spending
increased at a steady pace. Manufacturing production increased at a slower pace, and
construction activity continued to improve. Credit conditions improved slightly on balance.
Commodity prices moved lower, and wage increases remained moderate. The prospects for the
District’s corn and soybean crops deteriorated, and crop prices moved higher. Consumer spending. The pace of growth in consumer spending further moderated in
June and early July. Retailers cited lower consumer confidence, a weaker customer response to
promotions, and extreme summer heat as the main contributors to the lower sales pace. However,
some exceptions were noted. Demand for luxury goods remained stronger by comparison, and
sales of clothing, furniture, and home furnishings improved. In addition, the hot weather sparked
sales of swimming pools, fans, and air conditioning units. Auto sales also improved, driven in
large part by fleet sales and an increase in manufacturers’ incentives on new fuel efficient
vehicles. Inventory levels were little changed, but some auto dealers indicated that they were
adjusting their inventory mix to include more fuel efficient vehicles in order to meet increased
demand. Business spending. Business spending continued to increase at a steady pace in June
and early July. Inventories were generally reported to be at comfortable levels, and most
contacts indicated that capital expenditures were proceeding as planned. Auto dealers reported
facility upgrades and a number of manufacturers indicated they were purchasing new equipment.
That said, many contacts had become more cautious about future spending decisions, pointing to
the heightened uncertainty surrounding the federal fiscal environment and the upcoming
November elections. Labor market conditions were little changed on balance. Part-time hiring
increased on par with seasonal norms in retail trade, although permanent workforces decreased
slightly. Manufacturers reported only moderate gains in employment, but several did note
increasing the hours of their existing workforce. A staffing firm reported weaker demand from
the manufacturing, transportation, and business services industries but an increase in the growth
rate of billable hours in the construction and financial services industries. Construction/real estate. Construction continued to increase in June and early July.
Multi-family residential construction remained an area of strength, particularly apartments, but

 VII-2
single-family construction also increased. Residential real estate conditions continued to
improve, with home prices and rents both edging up. A contact noted a rise in short sales as a
side effect of lenders increasingly looking to avoid the still drawn out foreclosure process.
Demand for nonresidential construction also rose. Contacts reported several new hotel and office
projects as well as a pick-up in warehousing, industrial, and infrastructure building activity.
Commercial real estate conditions were little changed overall. Vacancy rates remained elevated
for retail and office properties. Contacts expected that it would take a while for the pace of
absorption to pick up significantly despite an increase in capital available for the purchase of
commercial properties. Manufacturing. Manufacturing production increased at a slower pace in June and early
July. The auto sector remained a source of strength. Several auto suppliers noted an increase in
research and development activity, as automakers were shifting responsibility for new product
design and development away from their in-house operations. Outside of the auto industry,
conditions were mixed. Capacity utilization in the steel industry edged lower; and while metals
manufacturers indicated that orders continued to increase, they also noted that growth had
softened some from the robust pace earlier in the year. Exports to Canada and Mexico continued
to increase, but exporters noted a decline in demand from Europe and China. Demand for heavy
equipment was steady, but a few contacts noted that it may soon be slowing. While freight traffic
continued to be strong, the demand for heavy trucks was expected to be flat into next year in
advance of the next round of changes in emissions standards. The lower price of natural gas was
noted to have slowed activity in the industry, as natural gas demand lagged available supply.
Contacts indicated that orders from the defense industry further weakened in anticipation of
additional defense spending cuts in the coming fiscal year. Banking/finance. Credit conditions improved slightly on balance from the previous
reporting period. Demand for longer term financing continued to increase. Credit spreads edged
up, but market interest rates declined so that net corporate funding costs were essentially flat.
There was steady growth in refinancing and lending for capital replacement, but limited loan
demand for other purposes. Middle market firms were the primary source of loan growth. Larger
firms were said to have been more significantly impacted by the weakening European economy
and have scaled back their borrowing accordingly. Banking contacts also noted that uncertainty
over the effects of potential fiscal policy actions on both demand and costs was reducing their

 VII-3
customers’ demand for credit. In contrast, consumer loan demand increased moderately,
particularly for auto loans and mortgage refinancing. Prices/costs. Cost pressures decreased in June and early July. Energy prices were
noticeably lower. Other commodity prices also decreased, with contacts pointing to steel and
lumber as examples. Lead times for some specialty metals remained extended, however.
Wholesale price pressures eased, particularly for clothing. Wage pressures continued to be
moderate. Manufacturing contacts reiterated having difficulty filling open positions for high-
skill trades. Agriculture. Extreme heat and drought conditions spread across most of the District,
stressing both crops and livestock. Forecasts made in June called for possibly record crops of
corn and soybeans; now it appears the District’s harvest will likely be below average, with little
prospect for improvement and plenty of downside risk. The corn crop is in the most danger of
further damage, as plants entered a critical stage of development with insufficient moisture. Corn
and soybean prices moved sharply higher, and wheat prices also rose. Hog prices were higher,
cattle prices were little changed, and milk prices moved lower. With higher costs and the outlook
for a decline in revenue, insurance coverage may provide an important safeguard for many
farmers this year. Insurance coverage is widespread for corn and soybeans, but is less prevalent
for some other products. Furthermore, several years of higher-than-usual farm income have left
many operations in a better position to absorb losses this year.

 VIII-1 Eighth District - St. Louis
Summary The economy of the Eighth District has continued to expand at a modest pace since the
previous survey. Residential real estate market conditions have continued to improve
moderately. Similarly, commercial real estate market conditions have also improved. Recent
reports of planned activity from manufacturing firms have been positive. However, reports from
services contacts have been mixed. Overall lending at a sample of small and mid-sized District
banks increased slightly from mid-March to mid-June.
Manufacturing and Other Business Activity Reports of plans for manufacturing activity have been positive since our previous report.
Several manufacturers reported plans to open plants and expand operations in the near future,
while a smaller number of contacts reported plans to decrease operations and lay off workers.
Firms in auto, appliance, wall coverings, stone wool insulation, food, construction machinery,
factory components, and packaging and label manufacturing reported plans to hire new workers,
expand operations, and build new plants. In contrast, a window coverings manufacturing firm
reported plans to lay off workers. Reports of planned activity in the District’s service sector have been mixed since our
previous report. Firms in medical transportation services, waste management services, and
business support services, as well as a nonprofit organization, announced plans to expand
operations and hire new workers. In contrast, contacts in newspaper publishing,
telecommunications services, educational services, and a firm in merchant transaction services
announced plans to lay off workers. General retailers have reported stronger sales recently, while
auto dealers have reported year-over-year increases in sales, especially in certain foreign and
luxury brands.

 VIII-2
Real Estate and Construction Home sales increased throughout most of the Eighth District on a year-over-year basis.
Compared with the same period in 2011, May 2012 year-to-date home sales were up 15 percent
in Louisville, 7 percent in Little Rock, 21 percent in Memphis, and 19 percent in St. Louis.
Residential construction increased in the majority of the District over the same period. May 2012
year-to-date single-family housing permits increased in the majority of the District metro areas
compared with the same period in 2011. Permits increased 45 percent in Louisville, 26 percent in
Little Rock, 41 percent in Memphis, and 25 percent in St. Louis. Commercial and industrial real estate conditions continued to improve moderately
throughout most of the District. A contact in northwest Arkansas reported strong commercial and
industrial real estate activity, while a contact noted weak demand for office space in the
Fayetteville area. A contact in Louisville reported strong leasing activity for premium-quality
office space in Louisville’s central business district, while office vacancy rates were mixed in
other submarkets in Louisville. A contact reported decreases in office and industrial vacancy
rates in downtown St. Louis. A contact in northeast Arkansas reported strong office leasing
activity in the Jonesboro area. Commercial and industrial construction activity also continued to
improve moderately throughout most of the District. Contacts in St. Louis reported some new
commercial and large industrial construction projects. Contacts in Memphis reported that a few
large commercial and industrial construction projects are under way in Shelby County.
Banking and Finance Total loans outstanding at a sample of small and mid-sized District banks increased 0.7
percent from mid-March to mid-June. Real estate lending, which accounts for 73.3 percent of
total loans, increased 0.6 percent. Commercial and industrial loans, accounting for 15.8 percent
of total loans, decreased 2.0 percent. Loans to individuals, accounting for 4.7 percent of total

 VIII-3
loans, increased 0.3 percent. All other loans, accounting for 6.2 percent of total loans, increased
9.7 percent. During this period, total deposits at these banks decreased 0.6 percent.
Agriculture and Natural Resources As of the end of June, the majority of cotton, corn, soybean, sorghum, and rice crop
conditions were rated as fair or better in all District states with the exception of sorghum crop
conditions in Illinois. Winter wheat harvests were either complete or close to completion, and
more than 88 percent of the crop conditions were rated as fair or better. However, the fraction of
pasture and range in good condition or better decreased in all District states since the previous
report. The District’s year-to-date coal production for the end of June was 4.8 percent higher
compared with the same period last year. However, the District’s coal production for June 2012
was 5 percent lower than in June 2011.

 IX-1 NINTH DISTRICT--MINNEAPOLIS
The Ninth District economy grew moderately since the last report. Increased activity was noted in
consumer spending, tourism, professional services, construction, real estate, and agriculture.
Growth was also positive, but slightly slower than in the previous reporting period, in the
manufacturing, energy, and mining sectors. Some tightening was noted in labor markets, and
wage increases were moderate. Price increases were modest, and some decreases were noted.
Consumer Spending and Tourism
Consumer spending grew moderately. Same-store sales at a Minnesota-based retailer increased 2
percent in June compared with a year ago. Sales at a North Dakota mall during June were up
over 5 percent compared with a year earlier. A number of new retail store and restaurant
openings were reported in North Dakota. Recent new car and truck sales were up at dealerships
in Montana, according to a representative of an auto dealers association. However, recent same-
store sales at a Minnesota-based women’s apparel retailer were down 15 percent from a year
earlier. Tourism activity increased from a year ago. Tourism officials in the Upper Peninsula of
Michigan predicted that summer activity will surpass last year’s levels. In northwestern
Wisconsin, resorts were full and sales at other tourism-related businesses posted strong increases.
Visits to the Minnesota Zoo for the 12-month period ended in June reached record levels,
according to officials. A Minnesota-based travel agency noted that leisure travel was down
somewhat, while corporate travel was steady; overall revenue was up. However, restaurant and
hotel owners in the Duluth, Minn., area noted a decrease in visits following a major flood in the
region.
Construction and Real Estate
Commercial construction activity increased since the last report. The value of new commercial
building permits issued in Fargo, N.D., so far in 2012 increased compared with the same period
in 2011. Commercial permits in the Sioux Falls, S.D., area were up substantially in value in June
from a year earlier. Numerous new commercial building projects were in early stages in the
Minneapolis area, including a new headquarters for a large utility and a major expansion at an
area hospital. Residential construction increased from a year ago. The value of residential
building permits in the Sioux Falls area in June more than doubled from a year earlier.
Residential permits increased in value and number in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area in June; the
single-family sector saw a surprising rebound. Several large multifamily housing projects were
under way in Fargo.

 IX-2 Commercial real estate markets saw continued strength. A Minneapolis property on
which a mixed-use development has been stalled since 2003 recently sold to a new investor.
Prices for commercial property in the oil boom areas of the District continued to increase.
Residential real estate market activity increased as well. Home sales in May were up 27 percent
from the same period a year ago in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area; the inventory of homes for sale
was down 31 percent, and the median sales price rose by 11 percent. In the Sioux Falls area, May
home sales were up 32 percent, inventory was down, and the median sales price rose nearly 3
percent relative to a year earlier.
Services
Activity at professional business services firms grew somewhat since the last report. According to a
Minneapolis Fed ad hoc survey, District professional business services firms noted gains in revenue
and profits over the past three months, while the amount of space occupied held relatively steady.
Respondents were mildly optimistic about the upcoming three months regarding revenue and
profits. Some contacts noted that competition in the sector has lowered prices and driven down
margins, yet projects were more complex and customer expectations were higher than five to 10
years ago.
Manufacturing
Growth in the District manufacturing sector moderated slightly from the last report. A June
survey of purchasing managers by Creighton University (Omaha, Neb.) found that
manufacturing activity expanded in Minnesota and the Dakotas, but at a slightly slower pace
than in recent months. A medical equipment maker near Minneapolis announced an expansion
into a previously idle facility. A pipe producer announced plans to build a new plant in South
Dakota. Plans moved ahead for a potential $1 billion fertilizer plant in North Dakota that would
make use of natural gas from the state’s oil patch.
Energy and mining
Activity in the energy and mining sectors slowed slightly. Oil and gas exploration activity
decreased in North Dakota and Montana since the last report, but oil production was at record
levels. Reports surfaced of ethanol producers idling plants in response to sharp increases in corn
prices in late June and early July, along with declining gasoline prices. District coal-mining
operations also saw reductions in demand as electricity generation shifted toward natural gas. A
mining company suspended its involvement in a joint project to develop a copper, zinc, and gold
mine in Michigan’s Upper Peninsula. However, hard rock mines in Montana and iron ore
producers in northern Minnesota remained busy.

 IX-3
Agriculture
District farmers mostly continued to benefit from favorable weather conditions. Drought that was
threatening corn and soybean production throughout the Midwest has not had much effect on
Minnesota and North Dakota, where most of those crops were rated in good or excellent
condition. However, crop quality was somewhat weaker in Wisconsin and in South Dakota,
where drought conditions were more prevalent. Prices received by farmers in June—prior to
drought damage in other parts of the Midwest—increased from a year earlier for soybeans, hay,
dry beans, poultry, and cattle; prices decreased for corn, wheat, hogs, and dairy products.
Employment, Wages, and Prices
Some tightening in labor markets was noted since the last report. Across the District, some health
care organizations indicated they were planning to hire more workers, a number of retailers noted
difficulty finding sales associates to fill open positions, and manufacturers continued to struggle
to find skilled welders. According to the aforementioned ad hoc survey of professional business
services firms, 28 percent expect to increase hiring over the next three months, while 8 percent
expect decreases in staff levels. However, in Minnesota an electronics retailer will lay off an
unspecified number of store and technical support workers in the state, a paper company laid off
about 260 workers following an explosion at the plant, and a cable company laid off almost 70
salespeople. Wage increases were moderate. Some contacts noted that compensation increases were
now similar to prerecession levels as wages and benefits generally held steady during the past
few years. Unionized grocery workers in Montana reached labor agreements that include about a
2.5 percent pay increase and added contributions to health and pension plans. Meanwhile, a
nearly year-long lockout continued at a sugar beet processing plant after union workers recently
voted to reject the management’s offer for a third time. Wages for truck drivers posted larger
increases. Overall price increases were modest, and some decreases were noted. Early July
Minnesota gasoline prices decreased more than 10 cents per gallon since the end of May. Metals
prices, as well as several other input costs, remained relatively level. One exception was a
substantial increase in the price of tires for mining machinery.

 X-1 TENTH DISTRICT - KANSAS CITY The Tenth District economy expanded moderately in June. Consumer spending was
stronger than expected due to stronger automobile sales and a solid start to summer tourism.
Commercial and residential real estate prices rose with stronger sales, and District contacts were
optimistic regarding future sales and construction activity. Led by mortgage loan activity, some
District banks reported improvements in loan demand and quality. District manufacturing
activity edged up and additional gains in production, orders, and capital spending were expected
in the coming months. Expanding drought conditions hindered crop development and drove crop
prices higher. District oil and natural gas drilling activity held at peak levels but was expected to
ease with lower global demand. The price of raw materials for manufacturing rose at a slower
pace compared to previous surveys and finished goods prices generally held steady. Wage
pressures were subdued except for positions in transportation, high-tech and energy industries. Consumer Spending. Consumer spending improved with stronger than expected sales in
June and was expected to strengthen further in the coming months. District retailers reported
increased sales, particularly for seasonal items, mid-priced appliances, apparel, and fashion
accessories. Several high-end retailers, however, commented that economic uncertainty had
slowed demand for luxury items. Auto sales climbed sharply and were expected to remain solid
for the next few months with more dealers offering sales incentives and discounts. Fuel-efficient
cars sold well, while demand for large, expensive cars and trucks remained weak. Restaurant
sales increased more than expected as both the number of diners and average check amounts
edged up in June. Tourism activity ramped up with the start of the summer vacation season,
though wildfires in Colorado hurt traffic in the Rocky Mountain region. District hotel owners
reported a sharp rise in occupancy at higher average room rates and expected bookings to remain
strong during the next three months. Manufacturing and Other Business Activity. Manufacturing and transportation activity
edged up in June and sales at high-tech service firms rose modestly. Following a moderate
rebound in May, District factory activity edged higher in June and remained well above year-ago
levels, with stronger production at food processing and aircraft manufacturers. The volume of
new orders fell in June but was expected to rebound and provide a moderate boost to production
during the next six months. A rise in the volume of shipments reduced order backlogs and
trimmed finished goods inventories. Capital spending held steady, but fewer plant managers

 X-2
were hiring as the average work week declined. Most manufacturers indicated that the economic
situation in Europe indirectly affected business activity by increasing the uncertainty surrounding
global economic conditions and future demand. After easing in the last survey period,
transportation activity picked up, particularly in the trucking industry. A modest rise in sales at
high-tech firms fell short of expectations but several companies anticipated stronger sales in the
months ahead. Real Estate and Construction. Stronger residential home sales reduced home
inventories and commercial construction activity grew in June. A sharp increase in home sales
reduced home inventories, particularly for low- and mid-priced houses. Stronger sales supported
a moderate increase in home prices and real estate contacts expected additional sales and price
gains during the next three months. Residential mortgage lenders saw an upswing in loan
applications for home purchases while home loan refinancing activity was stable. Sales at
construction supply firms remained solid and some building materials were in short supply.
Builders, however, reported a lull in new home starts following the spring construction rush, but
building activity was expected to pick up during the next three months. After climbing during the
last survey period, new commercial construction edged up and was expected to rise further with
more projects in the planning stages. Commercial real estate prices firmed with stronger sales
activity, and real estate contacts noted owners were making fewer concessions to facilitate deals.
Commercial real estate rents rose as vacancy rates fell further. Developers reported little change
in access to credit. Banking. In the recent survey period, some District bankers reported modest
improvements in loan demand and loan quality with little change in deposit levels. In general,
loan demand rose moderately, led by gains in residential mortgage loans and slight upticks in
both commercial real estate and agricultural loan demand. Bankers reported steady commercial
and industrial loan activity at slightly lower interest rates and a few bankers reported weaker
consumer installment loan demand. Some bankers noted that loan quality improved moderately
over the past month with addition quality improvements expected over the next six months.
Credit standards remained largely unchanged in all major loan categories and bank deposits held
steady. Agriculture. Agricultural growing conditions deteriorated substantially since the last
survey period as drought spread across the District. Extremely hot, dry weather hindered crop
development and more than half of the District’s corn and soybean crops were rated in fair or

 X-3
worse condition. Crop prices rose sharply as intensifying drought and few prospects of
precipitation cut corn and soybean yield forecasts. The winter wheat harvest was nearly complete
with better than expected yields in some regions. To preserve drought-stressed pastures, some
cattle ranchers were considering selling feeder calves early, especially with high feeder cattle
prices. Losses mounted for feedlot operators as feed costs soared. Rising export demand enticed
some hog producers to expand production. Strong farm and nonfarm investor demand drove
farmland prices higher. Energy. District energy activity held at historically high levels in June but was expected
to ease in the coming months. The number of active oil and natural gas rigs in the District held
steady with a rise in active oil rigs offsetting declines in active natural gas rigs. Some business
contacts expected drilling activity to slow with current supplies adequate to satisfy summer
demand, especially if economic uncertainty in Europe trims global demand and keeps oil prices
below spring highs. In contrast, a few District contacts expected a slight uptick in natural gas
prices as hot weather boosted demand for electric power generated by natural gas. Wyoming’s
coal production fell further as some electricity production shifted from coal to natural gas.
District ethanol production slowed as rising corn prices and lower gasoline prices cut profits at
ethanol firms. Wages and Prices. Wage pressures remained subdued during the survey period, raw
materials prices edged up, and finished goods prices generally held steady. Many firms were
reluctant to increase wages or hire new staff until economic uncertainty diminishes. Some
businesses, however, were offering higher salaries to recruit workers with specialized skills such
as engineers, software developers, mechanics, and commercial truck drivers. Some transportation
companies charged less for freight hauling in light of reduced fuel costs. The cost of raw
materials for manufacturing rose at a slower pace compared to previous survey periods and most
finished goods prices remained stable. Retailers held selling prices steady and did not anticipate
raising prices during the next three months. Restaurant owners, however, planned to increase
menu prices due to high food costs. High occupancy rates prompted hotel operators to raise
average room rates. Builders and construction supply companies noted rising prices for some
construction materials, particularly drywall and asphalt shingles.

 XI-1 ELEVENTH DISTRICT—DALLAS The Eleventh District economy grew at a moderate pace over the past six weeks. Overall manufacturing
activity continued to expand. Demand for business services remained solid, and transportation services activity
increased. Respondents said retail sales grew at a somewhat slower pace than the last report, and automobile
sales held steady. The housing sector continued to improve, and commercial real estate leasing activity held
steady. Financial firms noted mixed loan demand. Overall energy activity remained strong, although gas-
directed drilling continued to decline. Agricultural conditions deteriorated slightly. Employment levels were
steady to slightly higher, and prices were mostly unchanged. Wage pressures remained minimal. Outlooks
across industries were generally positive, but some respondents expressed concern about European debt issues,
U.S. political uncertainty, and healthcare costs. Prices Most responding firms said prices were unchanged from the last reporting period. However,
accounting firms noted a modest rise in rates, airlines reported higher fares, and some construction-related
manufacturers said they were able to raise selling prices as a result of improved demand. Overall, input costs
were flat to down, with reports of lower prices for cotton, scrap metal, and steel. The recent decline in fuel
prices lowered costs for airlines and freight transportation firms. The price of WTI ranged from around $83 per barrel in early June to near $85 in early July. Natural gas
prices remained depressed but rose 50 cents to around $2.85 per thousand cubic feet over the same period. The
price of gasoline declined about 40 cents over the reporting period. Prices for several petrochemical products
fell sharply due in part to softening global demand. Labor Market Most responding firms said employment levels were flat to up slightly. Staffing firms
reported demand remained steady at very high levels and noted rising demand for financial analysts, steel and
metal fabricators, and construction workers. Reports of hiring came from some retailers, automobile dealers,
and primary metals, lumber, paper, and food manufacturers. Wage pressures remained minimal, although legal
contacts said raises and bonuses had improved, and rising wages were noted for manufacturing workers with
specialized skills such as machine operators. Manufacturing Overall demand for construction-related products held steady since the last report, and
respondents' outlooks have become slightly more guarded. Producers of stone, clay, and glass reported
improved demand and higher capacity utilization rates compared to earlier in the year. Contacts in the lumber
industry noted a pickup in demand, while primary metals manufacturers reported slight declines. Producers of
fabricated metals reported steady sales activity, but said they were concerned about the continuity of some
private projects.

 XI-2 Conditions weakened in the high-tech manufacturing sector since the last report. Most respondents said
growth in orders slowed or remained flat largely due to a weakening global economy and more uncertainty in
outlooks. Contacts said that inventories were close to desired levels and that employment levels were stable.
High-tech manufacturers expect growth to remain flat or weaken slightly—a change from earlier in the year
when most contacts expected a pickup in the second half. Demand for paper products held steady, and contacts said they expect modest sales growth for the year.
Food producers said sales activity increased over the past six weeks and orders were up significantly from year-
ago levels. One food manufacturer reported adding several new workers in part due to strong demand.
Automobile and aviation equipment manufacturers said demand held steady since the last report. Expectations
are for seasonal pickup in automobile sales over the summer, but aviation manufacturers expect sales to remain
flat. Petrochemicals producers reported a sharp decline in prices due to softening global demand, lower
feedstock prices, and capacity coming back online following unplanned outages earlier in the year. Still,
margins have remained relatively healthy for ethylene and polyethylene producers. Domestic demand for PVC,
tied to residential construction, strengthened, and exports continued to be a major source of sales. Contacts
noted inventories of gasoline and distillates were below normal, and Gulf Coast refineries were operating at
rates above 90 percent in order to catch up. Retail Sales Retail sales increased but the pace of growth decelerated slightly compared to earlier in
the year. Sales of apparel, bedding, household items, and small furniture fared well. Discount retailers said sales
of food and sundries continued to perform the strongest. Overall sales growth in the Eleventh District continued
to outpace the nation, on average, according to three large retailers. Outlooks are cautiously optimistic and
contacts say it appears as if the environment has improved slightly for the consumer. Automobile sales continued to grow at a steady pace. Inventories were at desired levels and prices
remained stable. Auto dealers expect sales growth to continue at the same pace through year end. Services Demand for staffing services remained steady at very high levels, and contacts noted an
increase in orders for financial analysts, construction workers, and steel and metal fabricators. Outlooks were
mostly positive but slightly more cautious than the last report. Accounting firms noted a seasonal slowdown in
demand. Demand for energy and audit-related services increased modestly while advisory, transactional, and
tax services activity softened slightly. Legal firms reported a pickup in demand, with continued strength in real
estate, intellectual property, energy, and tax-related services. Reports from transportation service firms were positive. Railroads noted a slight increase in shipments,
with particularly strong growth in petroleum products, motor vehicles and equipment, crushed stone, and

 XI-3
metals. Air cargo, container, and small parcel shipments increased modestly during the reporting period.
Airlines reported stable passenger demand over the past six weeks. Domestic demand remained strong buoyed
by both corporate and leisure travel. Demand for international travel was strongest for travel to South America
and Mexico. Airlines expect passenger demand to soften in the fall and ramp back up over the holiday season. Construction and Real Estate Contacts in the single-family housing industry said demand picked up
over the past six weeks. Respondents noted that demand was outstripping supply in some areas, leading to
falling inventories. Construction activity was picking up as result. Realtors and builders remained cautiously
optimistic. Apartment market respondents continued to report solid demand. While rental rates continued to
rise, the pace slowed slightly. Apartment construction activity is expected to pick up in coming months. Commercial real estate leasing activity remained steady since the last report. Energy and technology
sectors continue to drive demand for space, particularly in Houston. Contacts were optimistic but remained
concerned about the pace of U.S. economic activity. Financial Services Overall, financial firms reported mixed loan demand. National banks said middle-market
lending declined, while auto and energy lending activity remained positive. Regional and community banks noted
improvement in C&I and commercial real estate lending. Consumer lending appeared to be steady, with strong mortgage
demand and a healthy backlog of loans in the pipeline. Loan pricing remained competitive at very low rates. The quality
of outstanding loans continued to improve slowly and deposit growth was mixed. Outlooks are slightly more pessimistic
than the last report in part due to European debt issues and regulatory and political uncertainty. Energy Respondents at energy-related firms said activity remained strong, and the District rig count grew
modestly over the past six weeks. The rapid shift from dry-gas drilling to oil-directed drilling has not reduced the overall
pace of activity, and business remains strong with long lead times and growing backlogs. Activity in the Gulf of Mexico
increased further, and the success of a recent auction of offshore acreage suggests continued interest in the region. Agriculture Agricultural conditions deteriorated slightly due to hot and dry weather. Planting neared
completion and crops were mostly in fair to good shape, with conditions much better than a year ago. Since the
last report, livestock producers have seen pastures dry out, cattle prices fall, and feed costs increase. Crop prices
generally increased over the past six weeks, particularly for corn, although cotton prices fell sharply.

 XII-1 TWELFTH DISTRICT–SAN FRANCISCO
Summary Twelfth District economic activity expanded at a modest pace during the reporting period of June
through the beginning of July. Upward price pressures eased somewhat and remained quite contained
overall, and upward wage pressures were limited. Sales of retail items rose a bit, and demand grew for
most business and consumer services. District manufacturing activity increased slightly on balance.
Demand continued to expand for agricultural producers, while activity was largely unchanged for
providers of energy resources. Sales and construction activity edged up in District housing markets, and
demand strengthened slightly for commercial real estate. Contacts from financial institutions reported a
small increase in overall loan demand and slight improvements in credit quality and availability.
Wages and Prices Upward price pressures were very modest during the reporting period. Price declines were noted
for selected raw materials and energy inputs, especially gasoline. The declines in selected input costs
combined with robust competition among firms in most sectors to hold down final prices for a wide range
of retail goods and services. Looking ahead, most contacts expect prices for their products to remain
largely unchanged through the balance of the year. Upward wage pressures were limited to a few worker groups, although some contacts pointed to
more general increases in the costs of pension plans and other employee benefits. Wage gains continued
to be held down by high levels of unemployment and tepid demand for new workers. The most
pronounced gains were reported for workers with specialized skills in the application of information
technologies, along with selected narrow groups of skilled manufacturing workers.
Retail Trade and Services Retail sales expanded a bit further overall. Modest sales gains were reported for discount chains
as well as traditional department stores, and inventories generally were at or near desired levels given the
pace of sales. However, some contacts reported growing concern about a softening of demand in the
high-end segment of the market. Demand remained largely flat for retailers of home furnishings and
major appliances, as declines in television sales offset increases for flooring and appliances. Similarly,

 XII-2
demand stayed largely stable for grocers as consumers remained focused on necessities. The sales pace
for new automobiles stayed high, bolstered in part by pent-up demand for Japanese brands whose
inventories have returned to normal after being constrained by last year’s natural disaster in that country. Demand for most business and consumer services grew further. Activity continued to expand at a
solid pace for transportation services such as trucking, although contacts noted that the pace of growth has
slowed somewhat in recent months. Sales grew modestly for providers of technology services, as
continued weakness in demand from Europe partly offset growth elsewhere. Advertising revenues rose
for radio and television broadcasters, with additional gains expected in the second half of the year. By
contrast, providers of professional services such as legal and accounting reported that activity was flat.
Demand picked up a bit for restaurants and other food-service providers and continued to trend up in the
travel and tourism industry: contacts in Hawaii and Southern California reported further gains in visitor
volumes and hotel occupancy rates and decreased reliance on price discounting.
Manufacturing District manufacturing activity rose a bit further on balance during the reporting period of June
through the beginning of July. Manufacturers of semiconductors and other technology products noted
continued high rates of capacity utilization and sales but also some emerging softness in demand. For
makers of commercial aircraft and parts, an extensive order backlog and additional new orders kept
production rates near capacity. Demand for steel was mostly stable at somewhat low levels, and activity
weakened a bit for processed scrap metal as a result of a decline in overseas demand. Conditions
remained robust in the pharmaceutical manufacturing sector. For petroleum refiners, capacity utilization
rates were largely stable, as growing export sales offset subdued domestic demand.
Agriculture and Resource-related Industries Demand for agricultural products expanded further, while extraction activity for energy resources
was mostly unchanged. Final sales and orders grew for many crop and livestock products. This was
stimulated in part by continued growth in overseas exports, although the reports suggested that this source
of growth is on the wane. Contacts noted modest declines for input costs, particularly for energy and

 XII-3
other petroleum-based products. For energy resources, contacts reported little change in extraction
activity for oil and natural gas.
Real Estate and Construction Home demand in the District improved modestly overall, and demand for commercial real estate
ticked up on net. The sales pace for new and existing homes grew a bit further in many areas, although it
stayed well below its historical average. Improvements in the pace of sales helped to reduce the inventory
of available homes, prompting additional modest expansion of home construction activity. Similarly,
strong demand for rental space spurred further increases in construction of multifamily units. Looking
ahead, most contacts expect home sales and prices to improve a bit further during the second half of the
year. Demand for commercial real estate inched up, as reflected in slight declines in office and industrial
vacancy rates in some parts of the District. Growth in the technology sector continued to support
improving demand for nonresidential real estate in the San Francisco Bay Area and Seattle markets,
although the pace of improvement has slowed of late, with contacts noting a recent decline in rental
inquiries for vacant properties.
Financial Institutions District banking contacts reported that loan demand grew a bit during the reporting period.
Although most businesses remained highly cautious in their capital spending plans and attitudes toward
debt financing, the volume of new commercial and industrial loans expanded further. Demand for
consumer credit grew on net, especially for auto loans. Reports continued to indicate stiff competition
among lenders to provide credit to well-qualified small and medium-sized businesses, placing downward
pressure on rates and fees. Contacts also noted additional improvements in overall credit quality and
availability, although lending standards remained somewhat restrictive for most business and consumer
loans.

