 For use at 2:00 p.m., E.D.T. Wednesday July 31, 2002
Summary of Commentary on Current Economic Conditions by Federal Reserve District July 2002

 TABLE OF CONTENTS
SUMMARY .................................................................................. i
First District - Boston .................................................................... I-
Second District - New York ............................................................. II-1
Third District - Philadelphia ............................................................... -1
Fourth District - Cleveland ................................................................ IV-1
Fifth District - Richmond ................................................................. V-1
Sixth District - Atlanta .................................................................... VI-1
Seventh District - Chicago .............................................................. VII-1
Eighth District - St. Louis ............................................................... VIII-1
Ninth District - Minneapolis ............................................................. IX-1
Tenth District - Kansas City .................................................. ......... X-1
Eleventh District - Dallas ................................................................ XI-I
Twelfth District - San Francisco .......................................................... XII-1

 SUMMARY* District reports suggest that the economy expanded modestly in recent weeks, with an
uneven performance across sectors. Boston, New York, Atlanta, and Dallas noted some
tapering off in economic growth, while Cleveland and St. Louis indicated some
improvement. Reports from the rest of the Districts point to continued moderate growth.
Overall, prices of finished goods and services remained stable, though there were scattered
reports of price pressures. Retail sales were mixed, with four Districts indicating some weakening, but five
reporting a pickup, partly weather-related. Retail inventories were said to be in good shape,
and many retailers expressed optimism about the near-term sales outlook. Vehicle sales were
seen as weak in June but were boosted by incentive programs in early July. Manufacturing
activity, though mixed across Districts and industries, appears to have improved, on balance. Residential real estate and construction activity was widely described as strong,
though some softness was reported in the rental segment. In contrast, commercial real estate
was almost universally described as weak, though stable in some cases. Travel and tourism
activity was reported to be little changed overall, with the Western Districts tending to fare
somewhat better than those on the East Coast. Reports from other service industries mostly
pointed to stable activity. Banks reported strong demand for residential mortgages, steady
demand for consumer loans, and weak, but in some cases improving, demand for commercial
loans. Credit quality was still described as good, with no significant increases reported in
delinquency rates. Agricultural conditions were described as poor in a number of Districts. Prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and based on information collected before July 23, 2002.
This document summarizes comments received from businesses and other contacts outside the Federal Reserve
and is not a commentary on the views of Federal Reserve officials.

 ii Labor markets were characterized as slack but relatively stable in most Districts; New
York and Kansas City indicated some softening, but Richmond noted modest improvement.
The pace of wage increases generally remained subdued, but many Districts noted continued
escalation of non-wage benefit costs, most notably health insurance. Prices of raw materials
were generally stable, though prices of steel, plastics, and lumber have risen noticeably.
Prices of finished goods and services were generally flat.
Consumer Spending Retail sales were mixed across the Districts, with auto sales getting some boost from
incentive programs in July. Some pickup in non-auto sales was reported in the New York,
Cleveland, Richmond, St. Louis and San Francisco Districts, with some of the strength
attributed to weather. However, Boston, Atlanta, Chicago, and Dallas indicated some
weakening in spending. In general, purchases for the home-building materials, hardware,
and furnishings-were characterized as strong. None of the Districts reported any
complaints about retail inventory levels, although New York and San Francisco mentioned
some intended inventory accumulation in anticipation of a longshoremen's strike on the West
Coast. Looking ahead, there tended to be a general sense of optimism about the near-term
outlook, though contacts in a number of Districts expressed concern about the risk that
declining equity markets would affect the real economy. Retailers were said to be optimistic
about the sales outlook in Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, and Kansas City. However,
contacts in the Boston and Dallas Districts expressed some concern. New York reported a
decline in consumer confidence in June. Reports from automobile dealers were mixed, with June sales described as somewhat
disappointing but July sales boosted by incentive programs. Cleveland noted a decline in

 iii
new car sales, but steady demand for used vehicles. Looking ahead, auto dealers expressed
some concern about inventory levels and future sales prospects in the Cleveland and Kansas
City Districts.
Manufacturing Manufacturing activity was generally reported to have improved modestly. While
none of the Districts reported a general decline, many noted that some industries were
expanding moderately while others were continuing to struggle. Vehicle assemblies and parts
production were reported as expanding by Cleveland, Chicago, St. Louis, Boston, and
Atlanta, although Philadelphia reported some slippage in transportation equipment orders.
The semiconductor industry has continued to improve according to Dallas, San Francisco,
and Boston. Production of construction-related materials, primarily residential, was still displaying
strength in the Chicago District, generally up according to Dallas, brisk as reported by
Philadelphia, and relatively strong in the Atlanta District. New York reported a general
increase in overall manufacturing activity through June, but a modest weakening of
conditions in early July. Minneapolis reported activity as increasing in Minnesota and the
Dakotas. Richmond reported mixed conditions, with a rise in tobacco and paper
manufacturing, but slippage in furniture and textiles. Kansas City saw continuing signs of a
manufacturing recovery, despite some weakening in the volume of new orders, and firms
were not quite as upbeat as a few months ago. Inventories were generally reported as steady
or continuing to decline, and nearly all Districts reported continued optimism about the near
term.

Real Estate and Construction Residential real estate continued to show strength in virtually all Districts, but the
commercial real estate sector continued to struggle. An overwhelming majority of Districts
described the housing market as robust, with sturdy gains in sales activity and varying
degrees of price appreciation. The weakest report on this sector came from Dallas where
housing markets were said to be unchanged. Despite the overall strength, some weakness
was noted at the upper end of the market in Richmond, Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas City,
Dallas, and San Francisco. Declining equity markets were cited as one cause of this relative
weakness, though New York noted that there has been no discernible effect thus far. In
contrast, a number of Districts indicated that declining stock prices have actually boosted the
perceived attractiveness of real estate as an investment. Apartment rental markets were
reported to have softened in Richmond, Minneapolis, and San Francisco, but to have
stabilized in New York. Residential construction activity was mixed but generally strong. Strong or
increasing activity was reported in Atlanta, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and San
Francisco. Shortages of developable land were said to be inhibiting construction activity and
driving up prices in the Boston and Chicago Districts. Commercial real estate markets remained weak in most areas, with increasingly slack
conditions noted in New York, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, Minneapolis, Kansas City,
Dallas, and San Francisco. However, Cleveland noted an up-tick in conditions, though from
low levels. Despite widespread weakness in office markets, Richmond noted some scattered
signs of strength in the market for retail and warehouse space. Commercial construction
activity continued to be sluggish in most areas.

Tourism and Services Tourism and travel activity was relatively stable, on balance. Signs of improvement
were noted across much of the western United States-specifically in the Minneapolis,
Kansas City, and San Francisco Districts. However, there were reports of modest weakening
in Districts along the Atlantic Coast. New York noted some slippage in hotel room rates;
Richmond reported strong tourism activity and increased air travel in July but weaker hotel
bookings for the months ahead; and Atlanta indicated declining hotel occupancy rates, as
well as shorter stays and less spending by visitors to Florida. Conditions in other segments of the service sector were mixed. Boston reported that
insurers have seen strong demand for life insurance but some declines in health plan
membership due to softening labor markets. Richmond reports strong growth in trucking and
shipping activity. Dallas notes slow improvement in service sector activity.
Banking and Finance Banks report little change in overall lending activity, with continued strong demand
for home mortgages and continued weak demand for business loans. Some softening in
consumer loan demand was reported in New York and Dallas, but a moderate increase was
noted in Atlanta. Home mortgage lending was reported to be strong in most Districts, with
further strengthening seen in Philadelphia, Richmond, Chicago, and Kansas City. Also,
refinancing activity increased in the Chicago and Kansas City Districts but weakened in New
York and Cleveland. Delinquency rates were mostly stable and overall credit quality was
described as strong and stable in most areas-including St. Louis, which reported an increase
in bankruptcy and past-due filings. Tighter lending standards were reported in New York
and Kansas City. More broadly, San Francisco reports that the financial sector remains

healthy, but Philadelphia reports that investment firm revenues have been adversely affected
by consumers shifting funds from equities to money markets.
Agriculture, Mining, Natural Resources Agriculture conditions were mostly reported as poor, although conditions improved in
parts of the South and West. Much-needed rains improved conditions in the Dallas District,
parts of the Minneapolis District, and in Florida. However, drought or near drought
conditions persisted in the Chicago, Richmond, Cleveland, and Kansas City Districts, and
some states in the St. Louis, Minneapolis and Atlanta Districts. Most soybean and corn-
producing areas suffered from oppressive dry conditions. A particularly severe drought
continued to pummel Virginia and the Carolinas. Areas with dry weather also reported
deteriorated pasture conditions for livestock grazing. Energy activity was described as strong by Kansas City and Dallas, though oil and
gas drillings leveled off in both Districts in late June and early July after a strong May. Dallas
reported smaller energy firms pulling back in recent weeks, cautious about anticipated lower
demand for oil and natural gas. Kansas City reported some downward pressure on earnings in
the natural gas industry, with prices flat nationwide but falling sharply in Wyoming.
Labor Markets, Wages, Prices Labor markets were generally reported as subdued, with little or no upward pressure
on wages. There were spotty reports of increased hiring in particular occupations, such as
engineers, skilled nurses, skilled construction workers, and mortgage processors. While most
Districts indicated little change in labor markets, New York and Kansas City reported some
softening since the last Beige Book, and most contacts in the Cleveland and Minneapolis
Districts indicated that they had no plans to increase hiring.

 Temporary employment activity was mixed but a bit stronger on balance-while New
York and Chicago reported weakness, Richmond, Dallas, Atlanta, and Cleveland indicated
some increase in activity. In the manufacturing sector, Richmond and Chicago reported
some recent weakening in employment; however, Kansas City noted some improvement, and
contacts in New York and Richmond indicated some pickup in labor demand in light
manufacturing. Richmond and St. Louis commented that manufacturers plan to increase
employment in the months ahead. Separately, Richmond reported increased hiring at service
and retail firms, but Boston indicated a decline in retail administrative and sales workers.
Job declines continued in the airline industry in the Dallas District. Wages were reported to be steady. Dallas noted some decline in wages of temp
workers, while Kansas City indicated scattered labor shortages, but otherwise there was
virtually no mention of wage pressures. However, there were widespread reports of
escalating non-wage benefit costs. Prices for most goods and services were steady, with the widely noted exceptions of
insurance (particularly health insurance), building materials (particularly lumber), steel,
plastics and paper. Prices of other inputs, as well as selling prices, remained flat or declined,
especially in manufacturing, according to nearly all Districts. There was continued
discounting of retail products to entice consumers, according to some Districts. Spikes in
wholesale spot electricity prices were reported in the San Francisco District due to warm
weather. Boston reported a firming of semiconductor prices but declining prices for other
high-tech goods. Dallas noted a continued downward drift of natural gas prices due to a
build-up of inventories, which are likely to reach record levels by late summer. Chicago
reported a firming of land prices for residential construction, while Richmond reported a
moderate rise in service sector and manufactured goods prices.

 I-1 FIRST DISTRICT - BOSTON The First District economy is said to be going through a "bumpy" period. Manufacturing reports
continue mixed, with makers of defense, medical, and automotive equipment and semiconductors doing
better than producers of IT and telecom equipment or nonmilitary aircraft. Retailers are less upbeat than
they were in April and May, with sales mostly flat or down from year-earlier levels. Results for insurance
firms vary by sector, while residential real estate markets remain strong. Many contacts express caution
and uncertainty regarding the outlook.
Retail Most contacted New England retailers report that sales were flat or down in May, June, and the
beginning of July, compared with prior-year sales. Several companies cite deterioration after positive
results in the first part of the year. The most upbeat reports came from a lumber/hardware store that is
seeing strong demand for remodeling and kitchen and bath installations as well as new construction, and
from a furniture retailer that had positive sales growth until July, when sunny weekend weather set in. An
office-supply store reports that consumables like paper and inkjets are selling well, but that sales of
bigger-ticket items are slowing. Other retailers are disappointed with below-expectation sales so far this
summer; this group includes a computer wholesaler whose sales are down 15 percent from last year. Most retailers are holding employment steady, though several report layoffs and attrition,
especially of administrative and sales employees. Most are granting modest wage increases, with one
employer ending a wage freeze in April. Vendor prices are generally stable; exceptions include high-tech
goods continuing a trend of price declines and lumber prices, which have firmed up recently after
exhibiting multi-year lows. Most retailers claim profit margins are stable. Overall, the contacted retailers have subdued expectations for the remainder of the year compared
with their relative optimism a few months ago. Most express hope for modest growth in their own firm's
sales, despite low expectations for the economy overall. By exception, lumber/hardware sellers look
forward to continued good business. Catching the mood of other respondents, one retailer characterizes
the outlook as "imponderable."
Manufacturing and Related Services First District manufacturing contacts report mixed trends for revenues and orders in the second

 I-2
quarter and early third quarter. Demand for defense equipment and medical-related equipment and
supplies is on an upward trend, and sales of automotive parts remain healthy. Semiconductor firms
indicate that business remains below year-ago levels but has turned up nicely in response to rising
capacity utilization at fabrication facilities in the Far East. Similarly, manufacturers of industrial
equipment and paper report recent upturns in demand, albeit not sufficient to offset declines during the
past year. Contrasting these positive developments, other contacts report that the slump is continuing or
that the pace of growth has slowed. Sales of information technology equipment, nonmilitary aircraft,
telecommunications equipment, and advertising materials remain depressed. Sales of technical
publications have weakened as customers in industries such as financial and legal services, consulting,
and IT scale back. Selling prices and materials costs are mostly flat to down. Prices for plastics, paper, and
semiconductors have reportedly firmed in recent months. Companies report that increased sourcing
outside the United States is resulting in lower purchasing costs. Employment trends are mixed. Companies that are increasing head counts are doing so
cautiously, and some other companies are still cutting jobs. About one-half of the contacted
manufacturers have at least selective pay freezes in effect, especially for salaried employees, but some of
these firms now plan to raise pay this year. Reported pay increases are typically around 3 percent. Responding companies generally report that capital spending remains modest. Some firms are
increasing their equipment purchases in order to improve the quality of their products or processes, or to
develop new products in response to changes in technology. Although quite a few contacts believe that the worst is behind them, the prevailing mood is
somewhat subdued. Respondents say that the recent stock market decline and concerns about corporate
accounting irregularities may depress demand for their products. Some also worry that no upturn is in
sight for industries such as IT, aerospace, and telecommunications.
Residential Real Estate Residential real estate markets in New England remain very strong. Demand is high, stimulated
both by low interest rates and by uncertain financial markets-many buyers are said to have turned to
housing as an alternative to equity. Contacts complain about lack of inventory throughout the region.

 I-3
Respondents report that most newly listed property sells within a few days, in most cases at the asking
price, and sometimes with multiple bids. The only exception is Vermont, where the number of listings in
the mid-price range is said to have risen during the past quarter. Home prices continued to rise through the second quarter. Contacts say the increases are
especially pronounced in Massachusetts; the other New England states report moderate price increases.
New construction is down in most states because of a lack of available land, with the exception of Maine,
where new construction is very active. Most contacts expect continued strength in housing markets in the
short term, with price appreciation slowing down in the second half of the year.
Insurance Life insurance contacts continue to report very strong demand. Sales are said to be up 25 to 35
percent in the second quarter from a year earlier. Reports from disability and health insurance providers
are less upbeat. The level of disability claims continues to be higher than normal, which one respondent
believes is a reflection of soft labor markets. Contacts are having some success raising their rates without
losing much business and are thereby offsetting part of the financial losses from higher claims. By
contrast, one respondent in health insurance mentions ongoing declines in membership. These declines
are partially due to rate increases this company put in place earlier this year to cover rising medical costs
and partially due to layoffs by client companies. Insurance companies' mutual funds show mixed results;
some are having "surprising" success while others are in net redemption. Insurance industry respondents are less optimistic than they were earlier in the year, especially
when looking at their investments and mutual fund sales. Employment in the sector has mainly been flat,
as many contacts report continued efforts to improve efficiency. Most say that they do not expect
significant changes in the second half of the year. However, those with current sales running higher than
anticipated foresee some softening of demand and a return to expected levels.

 II-1 SECOND DISTRICT--NEW YORK Economic growth in the Second District appears to have eased off since the last report, with signs
of renewed weakness in commercial real estate, and employment, but resilience in housing. There
continue to be no signs of price pressures. The labor market has shown signs of softening since the last
report. Retail sales have picked up since the last report, though most of the improvement was attributed
to the belated arrival of hot weather; retail inventories are described as lean, despite some intentional
inventory accumulation in anticipation of a possible longshoreman's strike. Manufacturers, after indicating improvement through most of the second quarter, report some
slowing in activity in late June and early July, though business contacts remain fairly optimistic about the
near-term outlook. Housing markets have shown resilience, characterized by strong construction and
resale activity, further increases in selling prices and stabilization in the rental market. In contrast,
commercial real estate markets in and around New York City have shown renewed signs of weakening.
Finally, bankers report a continuation of most of the same trends seen in the last report: weakening
demand for consumer loans, rising demand for commercial loans, and tighter lending standards;
however, delinquency rates, which had been declining, leveled off in July.
Consumer Spending Major retailers report that sales, which had been below plan in May, improved somewhat in June
and early July and were back on or close to plan. However, much of the recent strength-as the earlier
weakness-was attributed to the belated arrival of hot summer weather, which boosted sales of air
conditioners, summer apparel, and lawn and garden merchandise. More generally, electronics, home
furnishings, and women's apparel were described as the strongest categories, while men's and children's
apparel were said to be weak. Retailers report that inventories remain at very favorable levels-roughly
5-10 percent lower than a year ago, on average-even though some contacts have accumulated extra
inventories in anticipation of a longshoreman's strike. Selling prices, merchandise costs, and retail wages
remain steady, though non-wage costs continue to escalate.

 II-2 Consumer confidence edged lower again in June, according to the latest survey of New York
State residents, conducted by Siena College. While there was little change in the public's assessment of
current conditions, residents of both upstate and metropolitan New York City expressed increased
concern about future conditions.
Construction and Real Estate Housing markets continue to show resilience across most of the District. Homebuilders in
northern New Jersey say the underlying tone of the housing market remains strong, though prices appear
to be leveling off. The only sign of slack market conditions was along the "Gold Coast" (across the river
from New York City), where a substantial number of new multi-family units have come on line in the
past year. However, builders indicate that demand for single-family homes continues to outstrip supply. Contacts in Manhattan's real estate and appraisal industries report that market conditions remain
fundamentally strong, despite weakness in the financial markets. The number of co-op and condo
transactions in the second quarter was reported to be up nearly 50 percent from a year earlier and one of
the highest on record. Moreover, the average selling price, adjusted for changes in the mix of units, was
up roughly 3 percent from the prior quarter and also up 3 percent from a year earlier. One contact notes
that, while it is too early to gauge the effect of the recent decline in the equity markets, as of the third
week in July, there have been no reports of any buyers pulling out of deals. New York City's apartment
rental market has also shown signs of stabilizing-a major rental real estate firms reports that rents have
stopped falling but are still down 5-7 percent from mid-year 2001 levels. Most of the improvement in
the rental market is reported to be at the upper end. Commercial real estate markets, which had shown signs of stabilizing in the last report, appear to
be slackening once again. In Manhattan, Midtown's vacancy rate climbed to 8.5 percent at mid-year,
from 7.8 percent at the end of the first quarter. At the same time, Downtown Manhattan's rate soared
from 11.9 to 14.5 percent, a five-year high. Office rental markets in New York City's suburbs also
slackened, to varying degrees, in the second quarter. Long Island's vacancy rate rose 2 points to 13.3

 II-3
percent, while Fairfield County, Connecticut's rate climbed to an eight-year high of 18.3 percent.
Vacancy rates rose only modestly in Westchester County and northern/central New Jersey, ending the
second quarter at 17.1 and 15.8 percent, respectively. Asking rents are down 10 percent from a year ago
in both Manhattan and Fairfield County, but are little changed in New York City's other suburbs.
Other Business Activity A major New York City employment agency reports that local labor demand, which had been
showing signs of improving for much of this year, has tapered off in June and early July. Hiring activity
is described as disappointing-particularly in the financial, business and legal services industries-but
not as weak as in late-2001, and not nearly as bad as in the early-1990s recession. Separately, temporary
help agencies in upstate New York State report sharp declines in demand for contract and temp workers
compared with a year ago-particularly in the information technology area. However, in recent weeks,
two agencies note a pickup in demand for mortgage processors and light manufacturing workers. Recent surveys of purchasing managers and manufacturers paint a mixed picture of current
conditions but indicate continued optimism about the near-term outlook. Buffalo-area purchasers report
some improvement in business conditions in June, with increases reported in both production activity and
new orders. Similarly, Rochester-area purchasers report a noticeable pickup in business activity in June,
following weak conditions for most of this year. New York City area purchasing managers remain
optimistic about the business outlook but report that current conditions were mixed in June-those in the
manufacturing sector indicate widespread improvement, but other types of firms, particularly not-for-
profits, report increased weakness. More recently, though, New York State manufacturers report
weakening in business conditions in our latest monthly survey, conducted in early July, though
respondents continue to express widespread optimism about the near-term outlook. Manufacturers and
purchasing managers report little change in merchandise costs and steady to lower selling prices. Finally, Manhattan hotels report that occupancy rates were little changed in June and continued
to run slightly below year-earlier levels. However, average room rates weakened somewhat and were

down 13 percent from a year earlier.
Financial Developments Small to medium-sized Second District banks report mixed demand for loans since the last
report, with increasingly widespread weakness in demand for consumer loans, but continued strength in
demand for commercial and industrial loans. Refinancing activity continued to decrease, on balance. On
the supply side, bankers again indicate tightening credit standards for all types of loans except for
residential mortgages, where standards remain stable. Interest rates on both loans and deposits decreased
across all categories; most notably, four out of five bankers report lower rates on home mortgages.
Lenders report stable delinquency rates for all types of loans.

 III-1 THIRD DISTRICT - PHILADELPHIA Business activity in the Third District edged up in July. Manufacturers reported
increases in shipments and orders, but the improvement was not as extensive as it had
been in the past few months. Retail sales of general merchandise were virtually steady in
July and up slightly from the same month last year. Auto sales picked up a bit as
manufacturers renewed incentives. Bank loan volumes moved up marginally, mainly
because of some growth in consumer and real estate lending. Commercial and industrial
loan volume has been flat. Investment companies in the region reported an increase in
transfers from stock funds to money-market funds by individual investors in mid-July. The outlook among Third District businesses contacted in July is for further,
although modest, improvement. Manufacturers forecast increases in shipments and
orders during the next six months, and they are planning increases in capital spending.
Retailers expect steady sales for the rest of the summer. They are generally optimistic
about the back-to-school shopping period, but express some concern about the effect of
financial market conditions on consumer confidence. Most of the auto dealers surveyed
for this report anticipate steady sales for the rest of the year, although some expect a
slowdown. Bankers expect slow growth in overall lending, with further gains in
consumer lending and some strengthening in loan demand from businesses.
MANUFACTURING Manufacturing activity in the Third District continued to move up in July
although gains were not as widespread among the region's manufacturers as they were in
the spring months. Business varied across the major goods-producing sectors in the
District. Conditions were relatively stronger among companies that make building
materials and fabricated structural components, as construction activity remains fairly
brisk. Demand has also been rising for textiles and paper products, such as stationery and
packaging. In contrast, producers of basic metals, transportation equipment, and
industrial equipment indicated that orders have slipped recently. For the manufacturing
sector as a whole, new orders and shipments were just edging up in July.

 -2 III Area manufacturers continued to reduce inventories in July, on balance, although
half of those contacted for this report said they were maintaining steady inventories. A
large majority of manufacturers indicated that prices for both inputs and the goods they
manufacture were steady in July, but reports of higher prices for steel were widespread.
Rising health care costs continue to be a concern for manufacturers as well as other
employers in the region. The region's manufacturers forecast better business conditions during the rest of
the year despite the recent easing in the rate of improvement. Over half of the firms
surveyed in July expect increases in orders and shipments during the next six months,
while few anticipate decreases. The region's manufacturers have raised capital spending
plans, on the whole. In particular, higher outlays for new plant and equipment are
scheduled for the second half among producers of basic metals, electrical equipment, and
industrial materials and machinery.
RETAIL Third District retailers generally reported a steady rate of sales during July.
Compared with a year ago, sales were up slightly in most product categories. Some store
executives noted recent increases in the average amount of spending per customer.
Discount stores have posted relatively better results than other types of stores, in general,
although sales have varied among the non-discount stores. Some apparel retailers have
done quite well on a year-over year basis while others have been struggling, and
department stores' recent sales have been mixed. Most retailers indicated that they have
been cautious in purchasing goods for the summer months, and they have kept
inventories in line with the recent sales rate. Auto dealers said sales in July picked up slightly with new manufacturers'
incentives, although the annual rate of sales remains below last year's pace. In general
dealers said their inventories were at appropriate levels. Retailers expect sales to remain steady through the rest of the summer and pick up
for the back-to-school season. Store executives expressed guarded optimism for the fall.
They believe the course of retail sales will depend largely on overall economic
conditions, but some are concerned that financial market turmoil could lead to a pullback

 III -3
in consumers' willingness to spend. Most auto dealers expect sales for the rest of the
year to be steady at about the current rate, but some anticipate a slowdown toward the
end of the year, and they note that manufacturers appear to be trimming production plans.
FINANCE Outstanding loan volume at Third District banks was moving up slowly in July.
Residential real estate lending continued to move up. Consumer credit also increased,
mainly through credit cards. Commercial and industrial loan volume has been flat in
recent weeks. Some bank lending officers noted that requests for credit from businesses
have slowed significantly since the spring. Several bankers mentioned that competition
remains strong among banks and between banks and nondepository lenders, keeping
lending rates in check. Some bankers also indicated that competition for deposits has
become stiffer recently, putting some upward pressure on deposit interest rates. Bankers in the Third District expect overall lending to continue to grow slowly
this year. They anticipate a modest pickup in business lending and continuing growth in
consumer lending. However, some bankers expressed concern that consumers are
building up unsustainable debt burdens, and they expect an easing in personal loan
growth and some deterioration in personal credit quality later this year. Several bankers
also indicated that they expect the level of residential lending to ebb. Investment companies contacted in mid-July reported that they were experiencing
high levels of activity from individual investors switching out of domestic equities. A
few firms indicated that a small number of investors were closing accounts entirely, but
the overwhelming majority of customers were moving into money-markets funds. There
also appeared to be a minor movement into foreign stock funds and small-cap value
funds. Investment companies expect some diminution in their revenues as more funds go
into money-market funds with lower fees than stock funds.

 IV-1 FOURTH DISTRICT - CLEVELAND Economic conditions in the Fourth District during June and the first half of July showed
some improvement from the last report. Shipping activity continued to increase, reports of
expansion in manufacturing have spread, and improving sales figures were reported across the retail
sector (as opposed to only among discount retailers, as had been the case since the start of the year).
Since the last report, however, banking conditions remained mixed, and commercial construction
continued to struggle. Most contacts believe that business activity during the second half of 2002
will be stronger than the first, although many qualified their outlook with the caveat that the stock
market decline and news of accounting scandals could scare consumers into holding onto their
money. Many contacts reported having increased or planning to increase their capital expenditures.
Some manufacturers reported having completed capital expansion projects that were started before
the recession. Retailers reported expanding their chains as planned, with no or few delays.
Commercial builders reported that many projects that had been on hold were finally begun during
the survey period. In the trucking and shipping industry, if companies could, they were purchasing
new trucks before prices rise as a result of tighter EPA standards that will take effect in October. Labor markets showed little change since the last report. The supply of labor remains
plentiful, and those few contacts looking to hire reported that skilled labor was not difficult to find.
Demand for temporary labor was up slightly, but contacts reported that this was typical for this time
of year. Very few contacts plan to hire new workers or recall temporarily laid-off workers, although
contacts seemed to think this would likely change in the next couple of months. Health care
benefits remain a point of contention between unionized labor and employers, as do pension plan
benefits - unions are pushing for defined-benefit plans, as opposed to defined-contribution plans. Contacts noted mixed price trends. As has been the case for a while, most contacts reported
that the costs of health care and insurance were on the rise. Manufacturing contacts, however,
reported that the cost of most of their inputs have been falling, as have the prices of their finished
goods. Construction and retail contacts reported little change in prices. Steel prices have stabilized
over the last month.
Manufacturing The manufacturing sector saw expansion across the District in June. Several nondurable
goods manufacturers saw expanded capacity come on-line recently (some of these projects were

 IV-2
planned as early as 1999). Contacts reported that inventories are steady and now at acceptable
levels - they had been higher than preferred during the first quarter. Overall, contacts reported that
new orders rose through June and the first half of July, suggesting continued expansion.
Manufacturers are optimistic that the recovery in the industry will persist. Automakers in the District again reported significant amounts of overtime in June. Most
plants in the District were closed the first two weeks of July to retool their plants for 2003 models,
although some closed the third week of July. At the time of the survey, some plants already had
scheduled overtime for the fourth week of July. Steelmakers reported that business conditions remained steady through June and the first
two weeks of July. Contacts in rolled steel reported that most of their mills were operating at or
near full capacity and they are expected to be at full capacity through the third quarter because order
books for August and September are filled. Demand for stainless steel is weak, considerably lower
than at the start of the year. Prices for steel have held steady, as most of the spot price increases
have already been implemented and most contract prices are not negotiated until the fourth quarter.
Retail Sales Retailers appeared more optimistic in this report, with most noting improved sales since the
last report. Discount retailers noted continued steady growth, while specialty retailers reported
improvement in conditions relative to the first five months of 2002. Apparel retailers saw improved
sales with the summer season, with one contact reporting record sales in one of its clothing lines.
While a few contacts continued to report year-over-year losses, they noted that their losses were
smaller in June. Contacts reported that inventories remained low because they were still managing
inventories conservatively. For the most part, area retailers expect sales to increase at an annual
rate of 1 to 3-1/2 percent during the second half of 2002. In contrast to most retailers, automobile dealers reported that new car sales steadily declined
through June and the first two weeks of July. Used-car sales, however, have remained relatively
steady. Dealers are pessimistic about business through the rest of the year, with most expecting
year-over-year declines.
Construction District homebuilders continued to report that they remain guardedly optimistic amid fairly
stable business conditions. Commercial builders, on the other hand, continued to report an
unfavorable economic climate through the survey period. Some commercial building firms report

 IV-3
that year-to-date revenues are half what they were a year ago. Although commercial builders
reported that the rate of customer inquiries began to increase in July, the increase was modest.
Commercial builders, by and large, however, hope that the uptick signals the beginning of a better
economic environment.
Trucking and Shipping Contacts reported that trucking and shipping activity in the District saw strong monthly
growth during June. Year-to-date, the industry is showing an increase in activity, despite a
slowdown due to the Fourth of July holiday falling in the middle of the week. Shipments of steel
and nondurable manufacturing goods have seen the largest year-over-year increases, but growth has
been strong across all industries. Contacts remain optimistic that industry's recovery will continue.
Banking Half our contacts reported no change in their net interest margin, while the other half noted
tightening in the margin. Competition for borrowers remained aggressive as demand for commercial
loans remained weak. On the consumer side, roughly half of our contacts reported that demand for
loans was lower than last year, while half reported demand was higher. Demand for refinancing has
slowed considerably since the start of the year. Both the rate of loan delinquencies and the credit
quality of applicants have remained unchanged from the start of 2002.
Agriculture Crop farmers (primarily corn and soybeans) reported being off to their worst start in 10
years. Heavy rain during the spring delayed planting - while May 10 is the target date by which
farmers try to have all their crops planted, farmers were planting as late as the last week of June.
Because crops were planted late, farmers were already expecting a poor year. Dry conditions
through June and July have further depressed their yield estimates. Most farmers expect year-over-
year losses. While livestock producers are experiencing a good production year, they reported that
current market prices were below the cost of production. Except for cases where price contracts
were negotiated, livestock farmers expect to experience year-over-year losses for the first time in
many years.

 FIFTH DISTRICT-RICHMOND Overview: Economic activity in the Fifth District continued to expand at a modest pace
in June and July. Manufacturing activity grew at a somewhat slower pace in the last six weeks,
while services firms' revenues were generally flat. In retail, sales edged higher although shopper
traffic remained light. Home sales were strong in most areas, as mortgage interest rates remained
attractive to homebuyers. The volume of mortgage lending grew modestly and the demand for
commercial loans picked up. Evidence of price inflation remained scant. On District farms, a
severe drought continued to stress crops and, in some areas, farmers were culling cattle as pasture
conditions deteriorated. Retail: Most District retailers reported modestly higher sales in recent weeks. Factory
rebates and financing incentives bolstered automobile sales. In addition, building materials
suppliers saw an uptick in sales, surprising some of our contacts. Department stores and big-box
retail sales grew at or slightly ahead of the pace noted in our last report, and some stores began
hiring additional workers in anticipation of stronger sales ahead. A contact with an upscale
department store chain said that because of good sales prospects they were opening a new store
in the Washington area in August and would hire 200 people. Services: Services firms reported that demand was flat in June and July. Several contacts
characterized their customers as having a "wait and see" attitude due to the recent stock market
slide, apprehension about terrorism, and concerns about additional corporate accounting
scandals. Despite customers' concerns, some District services businesses saw a pickup in
demand. Airports in Virginia said air travel had increased, a fitness center in Charlotte, N.C. said
memberships were up, and a conference center in Rock Hill, S.C. said they were getting more
calls and bookings. While current demand was mixed, firms remained optimistic about their
prospects. Services firms added employees in June and July, as many looked for a pickup in
demand in the months ahead. Prices in the services sector continued to rise at a moderate pace. Manufacturing: District manufacturing activity generally expanded since our last report,
although at a more moderate and uneven pace. Shipments and new orders rose sharply at tobacco
and paper manufacturing facilities. A South Carolina paper producer said that because orders
were stronger in June, his plant increased its payroll and was working employees overtime. But
contacts in the furniture and textiles industries reported that their demand softened, in part
because of diminished consumer confidence. Even though overall employment in the District's

manufacturing sector slipped in recent weeks and the average workweek edged lower,
manufacturers continued to indicate that they would increase their payrolls over the next six
months. Manufacturers continued to report modest increases in product prices. Finance: District loan officers said that lending activity rose only modestly in the weeks
since our last report. Residential mortgage lenders reported that low interest rates continued to
support mortgage demand at a high level. A banker in Greenville, S.C., said that attractive
interest rates had caused "fence sitters" to move ahead with securing mortgages for new home
purchases, as well as leading homeowners to refinance existing mortgages. He also reported an
increase in home remodeling loans. Commercial lenders reported that the demand for business
loans was somewhat higher in recent weeks, but they noted that the level of activity remained
generally weak. Several commercial lenders suggested that businesses' concerns about corporate
accounting practices and stock market declines had slowed their local economies. A banker in
Richmond, Va., however, noted that some clients' projects-on hold since September 11th-were
starting to move ahead. She also noted more lending to municipalities struggling with revenue
shortfalls. Real Estate: Residential real estate activity remained generally upbeat in recent weeks. A
Washington, D.C., realtor said that housing sales continued to be strong and that sellers were
generally receiving more than their listing price when properties sold. An agent in Lutherville,
Md., also reported strong home sales, but noted that the month-to-month sales figures were a
little more erratic than earlier in the year. A number of contacts reported that sales of higher-
priced homes had slowed-a realtor in Columbia, S.C., characterized this segment of the market
as "dead in the water" in that area. While some realtors said that weakness in the higher-priced
market segment stemmed in part from a loss of wealth in the stock market, others believed that
stock market reversals had bolstered real estate sales. A Fredericksburg, Va., realtor said that
lousy returns on stock market investments had caused some people to "bail out" of stocks and
into real estate. A Richmond, Va., realtor added that people simply felt safer investing in real
estate than in the stock market right now. Fifth District commercial leasing and construction activity changed little since our last
report. Realtors attributed the sluggishness of commercial activity to ongoing uncertainty over
economic prospects. The office sector was particularly stagnant in recent weeks. A contact in
Columbia, S.C., noted that despite lease renewals by many firms, absorption rates have not

increased in that area. Activity in the industrial sector was also generally flat-but the level of
activity varied by space type and location. A Northern Virginia industrial broker reported that
traditional warehouse space continued to generate more interest than "flex space"-an office-
industrial hybrid. Retail sector activity was mostly subdued across most of the Fifth District, but
pockets of strength were recorded in Virginia and South Carolina. Rental rates and vacancy rates
generally stabilized across the retail and industrial sectors, but weakened somewhat in the office
sector. Tourism: District tourist activity strengthened further in recent weeks. Along the coast,
hoteliers at Virginia Beach, the Outer Banks of North Carolina, and Myrtle Beach, S.C., reported
that their bookings over the Fourth of July holiday were somewhat stronger than a year ago. A
contact on the Outer Banks told us that construction of a large number of rental homes in the area
had resulted in substantial rent discounting. A respondent in Virginia Beach reported that
bookings for September and October were below the year ago level. Temporary Employment: Temporary employment agencies across the District
continued to report stronger demand for workers in recent weeks. Most contacts said that
administrative and production workers were in particularly high demand, though they noted a
trend toward shorter contract periods. Wages for temporary employees were little changed. Agriculture: Persistent drought conditions severely stressed crops and pastures in many
areas of the District in recent months. Virginia and North Carolina suffered through severe
drought conditions; the governor of North Carolina has proposed that 54 counties in the state be
declared disaster areas. Corn and soybean crops in the District have been particularly hard hit by
dry conditions-over two-thirds of the corn crop in South Carolina was in poor to very poor
condition. In addition, cattle farmers in North Carolina and Virginia reportedly culled livestock
and hauled water due to poor pasture conditions and decreasing water supplies.

 VI-1 SIXTH DISTRICT - ATLANTA Summary: Economic activity remained sluggish in June and early July, according to
contacts from across the Sixth District. Merchants' sales were disappointing, but inventories
remained balanced and the outlook for the third quarter is upbeat. Growth in the District's
hospitality and tourism sector moderated as tourist traffic declined in parts of Florida. The
factory sector remained mixed with lackluster new orders and limited spending on new
technology. New car and truck sales in the District continued to lag behind national figures,
although recent incentives improved sales. Single-family housing remained strong, but
weakness in the commercial real estate market continued. Financial institutions noted modest
improvement in consumer loan demand, and commercial loan demand remained soft. Labor
markets were little changed, with few companies hiring on a permanent basis. Price pressures
continued to be limited to insurance, healthcare, and steel. Consumer Spending: Several District retailers reported a slight improvement in June on
a year-over-year basis, but sales growth weakened somewhat in early July. Most contacts
described inventory levels as balanced. Home-related product sales were strong across much of
the region. Retailers remained cautious and continued to monitor inventory levels closely. The
majority of contacts anticipate that sales during the third quarter will exceed year-ago levels.
Auto sales were below year-ago levels, but SUV sales continued to support the market. A new
wave of financing incentives helped improve sales. Real Estate and Construction: Low mortgage rates continued to be a catalyst to
District housing markets. Contacts reported that home sales and new home construction equaled
or exceeded year-ago levels during June and early July. The strongest reports continued to come
from Florida. Contacts noted that some consumers appear to be investing in homes rather than

 VI-2
the stock market. The outlook for the third quarter remains upbeat. Sublease space and weak
job growth continued to be a drag on District commercial real estate. Office vacancy rates
remained at high levels, but some improvement in office and industrial leasing was noted in
several markets. New construction remained largely limited to government and healthcare-
related projects. Manufacturing: Factory activity was mixed. Manufacturers were reportedly cautious
about inventory accumulations, and several contacts observed that new orders were keeping pace
with current sales. Producers of building supplies reported a lag in industrial sales, but several
noted increased demand for household remodeling and repair products. Orders were sluggish for
apparel producers. Contacts reported that expansions in the vehicle-manufacturing sector are
expected to create about 3,300 jobs over the next few years. Vehicle parts suppliers were
"swamped with orders," according to one report. A manufacturer of healthcare products noted
an increasing factory workweek. Technology spending in the District was largely restricted to
software upgrades, with new investments remaining largely on hold. Tourism and Business Travel: Reports from the District's hospitality and tourism
sector were not as robust overall as in recent months. Contacts in Miami indicated slower-than-
expected summer activity. Although occupancy rates remained down from a year ago across the
state, hotels were reportedly maintaining profitably by reducing staffing. Cruise ships continued
to sail at full capacity without price discounting. Parts of Florida reported better-than-expected
results because of a rise in the number of visitors driving to tourist destinations. However,
contacts indicated that tourists were spending less, and the average duration of stay was shorter
than it was last year. Some segments of the Louisiana gaming industry showed some
improvement on a year-ago basis. Business travel remained weak.

 VI-3 Financial: Consumer lending increased moderately throughout the District, and problem
assets remained under control in most areas. Banks continued to report little growth in
commercial loan demand. Prices and Labor: Most reports continued to indicate that firms were not adding
significantly to payrolls. Increased hours and temporary staff hiring remained the rule for filling
openings. Many expansion plans remained on hold. One report noted that the demand for
temporary workers in manufacturing was higher than last year. Price pressures continued to be strong for healthcare and insurance. One contact reported
that healthcare costs were expected to increase by double-digits for the third year in a row. The
tariff-induced increase in steel prices adversely affected some District manufacturers. Agriculture: Rains in most areas of Florida helped build up needed soil moisture, but
other District areas remained in need of more precipitation. Dry soil conditions affected the
yield of cotton crops in northern Alabama. However, cotton growers were encouraged by higher
market prices.

 VII-1 SEVENTH DISTRICT-CHICAGO Summary. Reports from Seventh District contacts suggested that the pace of the region's
economic recovery remained slow in June and July. Reports on consumer spending became more
mixed in recent weeks, as sales results varied widely by retail segment. The demand for housing
remained very strong, while conditions in nonresidential construction and real estate were still soft.
The recovery in manufacturing was uneven across industry segments. Overall lending activity was
buoyed by strong demand for residential mortgages, while business loan demand remained low.
Labor market conditions were mixed across the District, and employers were reluctant to take on new
hires. Crop conditions in the Midwest have varied widely but, on average, appeared substantially
less positive than a year ago. Consumer spending. Reports on consumer spending continued to be mixed but, on balance,
demand appeared to have softened slightly. Some chain stores noted an improving trend in sales
while others reported that results fell short of their plans. Most merchants said that consumers
continued to spend on promotion items, and discounters again reported stronger sales results than
general merchandisers. A large District auto group reported that sales were softer than anticipated in
June. Sales picked up somewhat in early July with the reintroduction of zero-percent factory
financing deals, though consumer response was less enthusiastic than last fall. A contact in casual
dining indicated that nationwide industry sales had weakened since Memorial Day, and were down
from a year ago. The softness was widespread across regions, although the Midwest was said to be
weaker than most. Theater and cinema ticket sales were again strong, and one contact noted that this
is "one of the best years in the company's history." This is one of the few areas where price
increases have stuck with little resistance from consumers. Tourist travel in the region was flat from
a year ago, and our contacts universally reported that Fourth of July weekend travel was very good.
With few exceptions, significant competitive pressures reportedly kept prices in check. Construction/real estate. Construction and real estate activities were again mixed by
market segment, with the residential market remaining very strong and softness persisting on the
nonresidential side. Existing home sales were up from a year ago, according to realtors in most
areas, and price appreciation remained very strong. The market was said to be very active with

 VII-2
listings keeping up with sales. The market for new homes was robust in most areas as well. A
contact with one state builders association reported that "every single builder that I've spoken with is
busy." A common complaint among homebuilders was the lack of land suitable for development.
One contact warned that the rising cost of land was making it increasingly difficult for builders to
offer homes that are affordable to first-time buyers. However, sales of luxury homes remained
moribund according to both realtors and builders. Nonresidential activity was again relatively slow.
Office vacancy rates continued to rise, but at a slower rate. Landlords were said to be offering more
generous concessions up front, but the downtrend in rents appeared to moderate further. Contacts
described commercial leasing activity as "trend less" and "stagnant." Manufacturing. Reports from our manufacturing contacts suggested that the pace of
recovery remained uneven across industry segments. Automakers reported that nationwide light
vehicle sales had picked up and were "brisk" in July. The pricing environment remained very
competitive, and some producers brought back zero percent financing offers to entice customers into
showrooms. Due to strong sales, light vehicle production was up from a year ago and inventories
were said to be at or near desired levels. A steel industry analyst indicated that there was a steady
increase in steel production, as new orders were strong and inventories for some products remained
lean. This contact also noted that prices for sheet steel products were still moving higher, but
profitability for the industry remained elusive. A producer of gypsum wallboard forecast that 2002
would be the second best year ever for the industry's shipments, despite continuing weakness in
nonresidential construction. Conditions in heavy equipment sectors were mixed, but generally softer
than in our previous report. Manufacturers of heavy trucks noted that production slots were full
through October, and they were no longer accepting orders for units equipped with engines that do
not meet new EPA regulations scheduled to take effect October 1. Truck production is expected to
drop off markedly after October, reflecting weak demand associated with substantial uncertainty over
the costs of buying and operating the new engines. Demand for construction and mining equipment
remained soft, but contacts did note some recovery in the demand for agricultural equipment.
Reports from toolmakers were also mixed, with some contacts noting continued pessimism, while
others saw "a light at the end of the tunnel."

 VII-3 Banking/finance. Overall lending activity appeared to pick up modestly, buoyed by a
resurgence in mortgage refinancing. On the household side, nearly all of our bank contacts noted a
big increase in applications for mortgage refinancing in recent weeks, with one referring to it as "refi
mania." At the same time, strong home sales kept the demand for new originations robust as well.
Reports on credit card usage were mixed, but generally indicated a moderate increase in volumes.
Business loan demand remained sluggish, but contacts suggested that activity "was bottoming out."
A contact with one large bank said that there remained "a hesitancy on the part of businesses to
commit to capital expenditures." Credit quality on both household and business loans was reportedly
unchanged, as were standards and terms for loans. Contacts from nearly all sectors of the economy
suggested that the costs of most types of insurance coverage continued to rise. A large insurer based
in the Midwest recently announced its second double-digit increase this year in homeowners rates, a
move it blamed on increasing claims against property insurance. Labor markets. Reports on labor market conditions were mixed, and contacts noted that
employers were still reluctant to hire workers. With regard to the demand for staffing services in the
Chicago area, one contact stated "I would have said two months ago there was a turnaround, but in
the last month it has evaporated." There were a few reports of new layoffs in the District, especially
in manufacturing. Contacts in some areas, however, noted a seasonal pickup in demand for light
industrial and construction workers, as well as project managers. Wage pressures remained subdued,
but contacts continued to report increases in non-wage labor costs, particularly for insurance. Agriculture. Corn and soybean crop conditions varied widely across the District as of mid-
July. Hot temperatures and scattered rainfall left many areas short of soil moisture as crops were
entering the critical reproductive stage. Crop conditions in Iowa and Wisconsin were better than
those in Illinois and Indiana. More generally, crop conditions in the major corn and soybean
producing states appear much less favorable at this stage of the season than a year ago. At the same
time, demand remained strong, resulting in higher cash prices for corn and soybeans in the past
month. While this was a positive for crop farmers, it had a decidedly negative impact on the
District's livestock and dairy farmers, who are experiencing considerable pressure on profit margins.

 VIII-1 Eighth District - St. Louis
Summary Economic activity in the District continues to recover. Manufacturers in a range of
industries report plans to expand production and employment, and retailers report that sales
improved somewhat in June and July. The residential real estate market continues to be strong
throughout most of the District, particularly for low- and mid-priced homes. On the other hand,
commercial real estate markets continue to be weak throughout the District. Although
infrastructure construction remains steady, state-government fiscal problems are causing concern
about the future. Loan demand was strong throughout the District in the second quarter,
particularly for residential mortgages. In the agricultural sector, the recent wheat harvest was
down significantly from last year and crop conditions are reported to be fair or good throughout
most of the District.
Manufacturing and Other Business Activity Overall, manufacturing in the District is still recovering. Manufacturers in the furniture,
metal, aircraft, biomedical, and auto parts industries are among those who have announced plans
to expand. Contacts note renewed optimism about the rest of the year. Several reports indicate
that companies previously facing difficulty have been bought and reorganized. Nonetheless,
some contacts note that the level of activity is still lower than it had been in the recent past. For
example, one contact reports that barge activity on the Ohio River is down substantially from last
year's level. Retail sales have rebounded somewhat after a lackluster spring, which had been
attributed to inclement weather. Accordingly, some retailers attribute the return of customers to
the warm weather. While discount and moderate-priced stores continue to outperform other

 VIII-2
merchants, a number of these other merchants have posted sales that exceed expectations. Most
layoffs in the retail sector are the result of cutting unnecessary or redundant positions.
Automobile sales are a mixed bag as some dealers report strong sales while others have noted
sales tapering off since May. Several dealers note that used and mid-range new cars remain
relatively more popular.
Real Estate and Construction Reports from most of the District's metropolitan areas indicate that residential real estate
sales are strong compared with the beginning of the year, particularly for homes priced below
$150,000. In contrast, sales volume has slowed over the last two months in northern Mississippi,
and there is an oversupply of used homes in Louisville. Commercial and industrial real estate
markets have remained sluggish. Contacts in Memphis and Louisville report a decrease in
demand for office space, while lease rates for office space in Little Rock remain steady. During
the first two quarters, the inventory for industrial space in St. Louis increased while the rate of
absorption was negative and below its 2001 pace. Residential construction opportunities have improved over last year as May year-to-date
building permits were higher than a year earlier for most of the District. Commercial
construction opportunities are increasing in western Tennessee, although contacts in Arkansas
and Kentucky report fewer projects for speculative space and more projects for space that has
already been leased before construction. State-funded infrastructure projects continue to provide
steady demand to the construction industry, although state-government fiscal problems are
causing a great deal of concern.

 VIII-3
Banking and Finance Total loans outstanding at a sample of small and mid-sized District banks were up by 3.8
percent between early May and early July this year. This increase stems from real estate loans
which are up by 3.6 percent over the same period and loans to other commercial banks in the
country, which were up by 1.4 percent. Commercial and industrial loans and loans to individuals
also increased over the same period, growing by 1.3 percent and 1.2 percent, respectively. Total
deposits at these banks were up by 3.8 percent. Contacts have reported a slight rise in
bankruptcy filings and past-due loans. Overall, however, asset quality is reported to be good.
Agriculture and Natural Resources The winter wheat harvest is nearly complete in most District states, with contacts in
Arkansas, Missouri, and Illinois reporting test weights as fair-to-good. Significant yield
reductions, resulting from a wet spring and weather-related diseases, caused the recent harvest to
be at its lowest level in several years. The wheat yields in District states were 6 percent to 23
percent lower than a year ago. Topsoil moisture conditions are reported to be adequate in Mississippi, with the other
District states, most notably Illinois, reporting less-than-adequate moisture conditions. On
average, most crops in Arkansas, Kentucky, Mississippi, and Tennessee are in good condition
while those in Indiana, Illinois, and Missouri are in fair condition. Among the latter group of
states, there is widespread concern among farmers about their crops, particularly corn and
soybeans. The dry soil conditions, in conjunction with the current adverse weather, stressed the
late-planted corn crop and may have lowered potential yields in some areas. In addition, the lack
of rain in the soybean producing areas has caused the price for this crop to increase markedly
between mid-June and mid-July. The unfavorable dryness that persists in the northern parts of

 VIII-4
the District has also been causing pasture conditions to deteriorate, with conditions in Tennessee
generally in the worst shape.

 IX-1 NINTH DISTRICT--MINNEAPOLIS
The Ninth District economy appears to have expanded modestly from early June through
mid-July. Agriculture, consumer spending, residential construction, tourism and
manufacturing grew. Meanwhile, the energy and mining sectors were level and commercial
construction contracted. From early June through mid-July, labor markets, wages and prices
stabilized. However, significant price increases in insurance, plastics, steel and residential
real estate were noted.
Construction and Real Estate
Commercial construction is slower than a year ago. Recent office vacancy rates are creeping
higher in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area and are expected to rise at least until next year,
according to a commercial real estate company representative. As a result, prospective
tenants have recently found reduced rents and more space-improvement funds available.
Contracts awarded for private building projects in Minnesota and the Dakotas decreased 17
percent during the three-month period ending in May compared with last year; however, road
and bridge construction was up 24 percent. Furthermore, many large-scale construction
projects are under way in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan, according to an official. Residential construction is strong, while home real estate activity is steady. In the
Minneapolis-St. Paul area, housing units authorized for June year to date increased 16
percent compared with a year ago. In May, more homes were for sale compared with the
same period last year in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area, keeping residential sales activity
steady but not as frenzied as a year ago, according to a realtors association representative.
The pace of recent residential construction in Sioux Falls, S.D., is slightly ahead of a year
ago, according to a building official; however, apartment vacancy rates are at the highest
level since 1996 due to high levels of multifamily building over the past two years.
Consumer Spending and Tourism
Consumer spending is somewhat higher than a year ago. A major Minneapolis-based
department store retailer reported that overall same-store sales in June were 4.9 percent
higher compared with a year earlier. A manager at a North Dakota mall reported June same-
store sales up about 4 percent over last year. Recent foot traffic was reported higher at a
Minneapolis area mall compared with last year, while a manager at another Minneapolis area
mall reported flat traffic and sales. However, a Minnesota-based leather products retailer

 IX-2
reported that same-store sales at its chain of stores were down 6 percent in June compared
with a year ago. Auto sales in Montana improved in June compared with the previous few months,
according to a Montana bank director. However, an automobile dealer association
representative in Minnesota noted generally slower business in June compared with last year,
particularly at dealerships located outside the Minneapolis-St. Paul area. Tourism is strong in several areas. In the La Crosse, Wis., area summer tourism is off
to a good start compared with last year, according to an official. Most hotels and resorts
surveyed in Minnesota at the end of June by the state tourism office reported the same or
higher occupancy than a year ago, except for the Minneapolis-St. Paul area, where about half
of respondents reported lower occupancy levels. Tourists were recently evacuated from
Deadwood, S.D., for two days due to forest fires; however, business recovered quickly
according to a tourism official. Visits to Mount Rushmore were up 23 percent in June
compared with last year.
Manufacturing
Manufacturing activity increased. A June survey of purchasing managers by Creighton
University (Omaha, Neb.) indicated increases in manufacturing activity in Minnesota and the
Dakotas. A Minnesota all-terrain vehicle manufacturer recently reported strong demand for
its products. In South Dakota, a sewing plant plans to expand employment after receiving a
recent order from the U.S. Department of Defense. A plastic products producer in the Upper
Peninsula of Michigan is purchasing equipment and expanding employment as a result of
increased orders. An emergency services equipment manufacturer in western Wisconsin
plans to quadruple the size of its operations with a $2.9 million expansion, and a brewery
recently increased output due to strong demand. However, a Minnesota brewery recently
closed.
Energy and Mining
Activity in the energy and mining sectors is level. Early July district oil and natural gas
exploration and production levels were about even with early June levels. Meanwhile, early
July iron ore output is about level with the previous month, according to an industry
spokesperson. However, a Montana platinum mine plans to expand output throughout 2002.

 IX-3
Agriculture
The overall agricultural economy has brightened since early June. Rains aided reservoir and
irrigation systems, but the drought continues in parts of the district. An early June "perfect
storm" in Montana should help provide the biggest wheat crop since 1997, according to a
Montana bank director. Meanwhile, the U.S. Department of Agriculture reported above-normal
progress for most district crops. For example, 50 percent of the Minnesota and 44 percent of
the South Dakota soybean crop was blooming in mid-July compared with the five-year average
of 35 percent and 32 percent respectively. However, about 40 percent of a large cooperative's
sugar beet acres were damaged by recent flooding and poor springtime weather.
Employment, Wages and Prices
Labor markets remained at about the same level as the last report, with a mix of layoff and
expansion announcements. A telecommunications company will lay off 400 Minnesota
employees over the next few months. An electronics retailer recently announced plans to
close its 400-employee distribution center in Minnesota. The closure of a western Wisconsin
manufacturer of fitness equipment and small appliances will result in 100 job losses. A bank
director reported that most company contacts do not plan to increase employment over the
next few months. In contrast, the expansion of a Minnesota furniture store could increase its staffing
levels by up to 130 employees by next year. A Minnesota e-commerce company recently
announced plans to add up to 90 employees to its sales department. A proposed call center in
South Dakota would initially employ 150 workers, potentially expanding to 500 in five years.
Furthermore, the number of initial claims for unemployment in Minnesota decreased about 8
percent in June compared with the same month last year. Wage increases are moderate. A Montana bank director reported employers in northeast
Montana expect to increase wages about 3 percent or lower. Hourly wages for district
manufacturing workers increased 2.9 percent for the three-month period ending in May. Price increases are modest, except in insurance, plastics, steel and real estate. Several
bank directors reported little growth in overall prices. However, Minnesota's health
maintenance organizations recently reported an increase in premium revenue per member by 14 percent over a year ago. A bank director reported recent significant price increases for
plastics and steel compared with a year ago. The median price for a home in Minneapolis-St.
Paul increased almost 7 percent in May compared with a year ago.

 X-1 TENTH DISTRICT - KANSAS CITY Overview. The Tenth District economy maintained an upward trend in June and early July,
although there were still some signs of weakness. Residential real estate activity rose in most of the
district, and manufacturing activity continued to improve. In addition, retail sales remained steady,
and energy activity held previous gains. On the negative side, vehicle sales were weak prior to the
reintroduction of incentives, and commercial real estate markets continued to soften. In the farm
economy, drought conditions damaged pastures and spring crops in western parts of the district.
Wage and retail price pressures remained largely subdued, although prices for some manufacturing
and construction materials increased. Consumer Spending. Most retailers in the district continued to report steady sales in June
and early July. Sales appeared to be strongest at higher-end stores. Among merchandise categories,
home furnishings performed best, while appliances and sporting goods showed some weakness.
Apparel sales were mixed. Stores appear to have finally eliminated excess inventories and are now
beginning to re-stock. Nearly all managers were optimistic about sales in coming months, particularly
for the back-to-school season. Motor vehicle sales were generally weak in June, with dealers
aggressively trimming inventories. Sales began to pick up in early July but only after the
reintroduction of attractive financing incentives. Dealers remain very concerned about future sales
and some have increased their advertising expenditures considerably in order to reduce inventories
before the special financing ends. Tourism activity in the district appears to have largely returned to
pre-recession levels outside of Colorado. In Colorado, occupancy rates at hotels and resorts were
improving until the June wildfires disrupted the rebound. Manufacturing. District factory activity showed further signs of recovery in June and early
July, though firms were not as upbeat as a few months ago. Production moved almost even with year-
ago levels, and fewer firms than in past surveys reported declines in employment from a year ago.
Capacity utilization also remained higher than earlier in the year. On the other hand, the volume of

 X-2
new orders weakened somewhat, and expectations for future production were not as high as in the
spring. Inventories declined in June but are expected to hold steady in coming months. Supplier
delivery times continued to edge up. Real Estate and Construction. Residential real estate activity improved in June and early
July, but commercial real estate markets continued to weaken. Single-family construction rose in
most areas and was considerably higher than a year ago in some places. Starts of entry-level houses
were particularly strong. Builders expect construction activity to remain solid in coming months and
are not expecting any problems in obtaining materials. Home sales were steady across the district,
with strong sales of lower-priced homes continuing to offset somewhat weaker sales of higher-priced
homes. Realtors expect these sales patterns to continue. Mortgage lenders reported a slight increase
in demand for home loans, with both home purchases and refinancings edging up from the previous
survey. Lenders indicated that the majority of borrowers who refinanced were seeking to reduce their
monthly payments rather than cash out. Mortgage demand is expected to remain steady through the
fall. Commercial realtors reported further weakening in district office markets in June and early July. Vacancy rates continued to edge up across the region, while construction, sales, and prices of office
space continued to decline. Most realtors expect further softening in office markets in coming
months. Banking. Bankers report that loans fell and deposits edged up since the last survey, reducing
loan-deposit ratios. Demand decreased for all major loan categories except home equity loans, which
held steady. Some bankers attributed the decline in loan demand to the uncertain economic outlook
and increased caution on the part of borrowers. On the deposit side, NOW accounts remained
unchanged but all other categories rose. All respondent banks left their prime lending rates
unchanged, and most banks also held their consumer lending rates steady. A few banks tightened
their lending standards. Energy. Energy activity in the district remained strong. The count of active oil and gas
drilling rigs in the region held steady in June and early July after rising considerably in May. Natural

 X-3
gas producers in Wyoming, however, have experienced some downward pressure on earnings in the
past few months. While natural gas prices in most of the country have remained flat since April,
prices in Wyoming have fallen sharply. District sources attribute the price decline in the state to the
combination of increased local production and a shortage of pipeline capacity to transport supplies to
national markets. Agriculture. Drought conditions persisted in much of the district in June and early July. As
a result, the recently harvested wheat crop was below average and spring-planted crops were stressed.
Pastures have been extremely dry, forcing cattle ranchers to seek other forage supplies and sell some
of their breeding stock and young calves. However, in the easternmost areas of the district, spring
planted crops and pasture conditions have been favorable. District bankers expect lower farm
incomes this year due to drought-related crop losses and lower livestock prices. Bankers indicate they
will continue to watch farm loan portfolios closely, as farm financial conditions will depend largely
on government payments and crop insurance. Wages and Prices. Wage and price pressures remained generally subdued in June and early
July, although some materials prices rose. District labor markets were quite slack, and layoff
announcements increased slightly from the previous survey. However, employers continued to have
difficulty hiring nurses, skilled construction workers, and certain types of IT workers. Some retailers
also reported they were beginning to have problems finding experienced salespeople. Wage pressures
were generally nonexistent outside of these fields, but employer benefit costs continued to increase,
due primarily to rising health care premiums. Many firms reported they were planning to pass
premium increases on to their employees or were exploring other ways to limit their health insurance
contributions. Retail prices remained basically flat and are expected to stay unchanged in coming
months. Builders reported they were paying slightly higher prices for materials, particularly for
lumber. They expect these increases to taper off in the near future, however. Some manufacturers
reported further rises in steel prices, but prices for most other materials were unchanged. Many
managers expect slightly higher material prices over the next few months.

 XI-1 ELEVENTH DISTRICT-DALLAS Eleventh District economic activity grew very slowly in June and the first half of July.
Caution is percolating through the economy, with respondents expressing concern about the
stock market, recent corporate scandals, and terrorism. Several contacts said their firms have
customers who are interested in doing business-are financially ready to do deals-but need
more confidence to go forward. Manufacturing and service sector activity was expanding
slowly. Retail sales were weak, and construction and real estate activity remained soft. Energy
activity flattened, after having increased strongly in the spring. Contacts in the financial
services industry said consumer lending was showing signs of softening. Heavy rain improved
agricultural conditions. Prices and Labor Markets. Most contacts reported little price pressure, and that
inventories of most goods were at desired levels. High insurance costs continue to be reported
as a widespread concern. Crude oil prices hovered between $24 and $26 per barrel in June and
the first half of July. Although wholesale prices for gasoline are about seven cents per gallon
higher than a year ago, gasoline consumption is up about 1 percent above last year's levels.
Although demand has strengthened, inventories of gasoline are high because the warm winter
led to a buildup of heating oil inventories, which encouraged refiners to turn to gasoline
production early this year. Natural gas prices continued to drift down in recent weeks pulled
down by inventories that are nearly 20 percent above the five-year average. Barring unusually
hot weather, natural gas inventories are on course to reach record levels by late summer.
Prices are up for basic petrochemicals, such as ethylene, propylene and styrene, and for
plastics, such as polyethylene, polypropylene, polystyrene and PVC. Contacts were uncertain
if recent price increases were sustainable for petrochemicals because it is unclear if the price
increases were the result of improved fundamentals or high levels of plant outages. Paper
producers say prices are up for all types of products, partly because of higher prices for
plastics. Most industries reported little change in labor markets. The temporary service industry
said that wages are flat to declining, and competition is pushing down fees as much as 15
percent. High tech firms reported that, while the market for programmers and other employees

 XI-2
has loosened substantially, the job market for engineers is very tight, and employees are no
longer willing to accept stock as compensation. Manufacturing. Manufacturing activity continued to expand weakly. Contacts said that
the high tech industry is clearly at the bottom, but the speed of the recovery differs by product.
While telecommunications firms generally believe the worst is over, contacts reported no signs
of improvement-particularly for wired devices-and expect to bump along the bottom for a
while. Demand for wireless devices and consumer electronics is up, although computer sales
have been weak. The semiconductor industry is clearly in recovery, according to contacts, who
said that sales growth is expected to be positive by the end of summer and typically rebounds
quickly. Demand for chips to supply consumer electronics, wireless communications
equipment, and automobiles is rising, both because demand for those products is increasing but
also because more chips are going into each product. Demand for construction-related materials was mixed. Cement activity was slow due to
heavy rains, but contacts expect demand to pick back up soon. Demand for fabricated metal
also softened over the past month. Sales were up for clay and brick, with strong demand for
residential and government building. Lumber and glass producers reported little change in
sales. Demand for primary metals has been improving slightly according to contacts, who say
activity is stronger than a year ago. Steel sales have picked up the strongest, thanks to tariff
protection. Demand is up for plastic products. In contrast, Refineries reduced capacity utilization to
control stocks, which are high. Refiners' margins have improved from the weak levels of this
winter but are still well below normal. Sales of food and apparel products were up. Paper producers say demand has been
slowing over the past few months, and customers are reluctant to buy anything other than what
is necessary. Services. Service sector activity continued to slowly improve. Temporary service firms
say demand is up considerably from a year ago. Activity is strengthening to supply light
manufacturing and distribution and call centers, but demand from the financial and IT sectors
remained weak. Temporary firms said that intense competition is keeping profits down despite
increased activity. Law firms reported that litigation and bankruptcy activity remained strong,

 XI-3
and there are signs of a slight pick up in some other areas. But corporate and transactions work
remained slow. Accounting firms reported a pickup in audit work and an increase in customers
as a result of the collapse of Andersen. In their view, many clients are unprofitable, and
business in mergers and transactions is weak. Railroads reported a general pickup in activity, although construction shipments have
been weak. Trucking shipments have been weak, particularly of construction materials.
Demand for air travel remains weak, and some airlines continue to report double-digit declines
in passenger loads in comparison with last year, which has led to large revenue shortfalls.
Further employment cuts are expected. Contacts say government guarantees are distorting the
industry because they are keeping the less efficient airlines alive. Retail Sales. Retail sales were soft in June and the first half of July. Intense
competition has led to a struggle for market share. Inventories are in good shape, according to
most contacts, who say that they do not expect a lot of promotions to reduce stock. Retailers
reported that consumers are buying only what they need and see no signs that spending will
pick up. Some firms are reducing purchases because sales have been below expectations. Auto
sales picked up strongly in Houston and less so in the rest of the state. Dealers credited
financing incentives and said that price competition is intense. Financial Services. Deposits increased moderately despite declining deposit interest
rates, which contacts attribute to uncertainty about financial markets. Lending activity was
mostly unchanged, but consumer lending-which has been the strongest category-is showing
signs of slowing. Commercial and industrial lending remained weak, and market-related
activities, such as mergers and acquisitions, continued their strong negative trend. Contacts
were less optimistic about the outlook than they have been for many months. Construction and Real Estate. Construction and real estate activity remained soft.
Office markets continued to flounder, with weak leasing demand and several large corporations
looking to unload properties. Contacts in Houston said that uncertainty has led some tenants to
limit lease renewals to one year. Office rents in the previously "hot" areas of Dallas have
dropped 50 percent from a year ago. Residential markets have been mostly unchanged. Low-
priced homes still fare the best, but builders reported that competition is stiff and price
concessions are deep. Contacts said that money is available for investment opportunities

 XI-4
because recent losses in equity markets have boosted the attractiveness of real estate
investments. Energy. Drilling activity leveled out in June and early July after several weeks of solid
improvement. Activity at large energy firms has continued at roughly the same pace, but
smaller independent firms have pulled back in recent weeks, cautious about high inventories
and slower than anticipated demand for oil and natural gas. Despite improvements earlier in
the year, energy service firms report that the industry is very competitive and that there is no
pricing power. Agriculture. Heavy rainfall improved crop growth and livestock conditions in most
areas, greening up pastures and replenishing reservoirs. While the rains caused severe flooding
with crop and livestock losses in some parts, dry conditions remain a concern in parts of South
and West Texas. Corn, grain and cotton prices were up, while cattle prices fell. Contacts are
optimistic that recent exchange rate changes should help exports.

 XII-1 TWELFTH DISTRICT-SAN FRANCISCO Reports from Twelfth District contacts suggest that economic activity continued to
expand at a moderate pace in most of the region in June through mid-July. Respondents reported
little change in prices for most consumer goods and services, though most noted further increases
in housing prices. In labor markets, contacts noted little upward pressure on wages, but higher
costs for health care and other insurance. While contacts noted that consumers spent cautiously
during the survey period, households also continued to respond to discounting in the retail trade and service sectors. The survey responses pointed to some improvement in high-tech
manufacturing, particularly semiconductors. Overall, however, businesses were cautious about
upgrading and expanding facilities, equipment, and software. Conditions in the District's
agricultural sector improved in recent weeks. Commercial real estate markets remained weak,
with vacancy rates increasing slightly. Residential markets generally were solid; conditions
ranged from good with some early signs of cooling to still hot in heavily populated Southern
California. Bank contacts indicated that demand was strong for household loans but weak for
business loans.
Prices and Wages District respondents observed little upward pressure on wages and prices in June through
mid-July. Discounting held down final sales prices on many retail products. On balance,
producers' input prices held steady, except for spikes in wholesale electricity prices. Contacts
also noted ample labor supply and stable wages in most areas. However, respondents indicated
that health care and other insurance costs rose further during the most recent survey period.

 XII-2
Retail Trade and Services Responses to the most recent survey indicated growth in overall sales for the retail trade
and service sectors was moderate in recent weeks. Consumers were cautious in their spending
for most retail goods and services in June through mid-July. However, contacts noted that new
vehicle sales were boosted by aggressive pricing practices. Demand for major home appliances
and remodeling services generally remained robust in the District; purchases were advanced in
part by low interest rates and strong home sales. Most respondents indicated that inventories for
retail goods were stable, though concern about a potential longshoremen's strike on the West
Coast reportedly prompted an acceleration of deliveries of imports by some retail businesses. Contacts noted generally improved conditions in the District's travel and tourism sectors. Respondents observed an increase in travel generally; however, hotel occupancy rates still were
below year-earlier levels in several areas, including California and Hawaii.
Manufacturing In the manufacturing sector, respondents reported some signs of improvement in recent
weeks, notably in the semiconductor industry. Respondents noted a pickup in orders and sales
for most varieties of semiconductors. Among semiconductor producers, inventories reportedly
were flat, capacity utilization rose steadily, and prices were flat to up slightly. Prices for high-
tech products more generally were soft. Contacts also noted ongoing weakness in the
telecommunications industry, with depressed prices and profits leading to additional downsizing.
In aerospace, defense contracts were a plus for the economy of Southern California, while
weakness in commercial aircraft manufacturing held back growth in the state of Washington.

 XII-3 Most respondents indicated that inventories remained stable during the recent survey
period. They also noted little evidence of changes in manufacturers' inventories or shipping
patterns in response to concerns about a potential strike at West Coast ports. Several contacts
noted that the weaker dollar appeared to be boosting exports.
Agriculture and Resource-related Industries Conditions in the District's agricultural sector generally improved in June through mid-
July. Respondents reported higher prices for various nuts, fruits, and dairy and forest products,
although lower prices persisted for cotton, wine grapes, logs, and cattle. Contacts indicated that
the weaker dollar has fueled District export activity in recent weeks. Fires and drought adversely
affected ranchers in parts of the District. Electricity demand rose in the most recent survey
period, and wholesale spot electricity prices spiked as summer temperatures soared throughout
the region.
Real Estate and Construction Respondents continued to report disparate conditions in District real estate markets in
June through mid-July. Commercial real estate markets deteriorated further, while most
residential markets remained relatively solid. Contacts noted that commercial office vacancy
rates rose slightly during the current survey period. Lease prices declined or remained flat
throughout the District, most notably in high-tech centers in California, Washington, Oregon, and
Idaho. Construction costs for commercial buildings in several District states continued to fall. In contrast, demand for residential real estate in the District generally remained solid in
June through mid-July. Conditions were very robust in heavily populated Southern California,
where house prices and building activity rose. Contacts in Hawaii also indicated demand for

 XII-4
residential real estate was strong. Respondents in most other areas reported that home sales and
prices rose, though less rapidly in recent weeks than earlier in the year. Contacts reported some
softening in selected markets for high-end housing. In addition, in parts of the District,
respondents noted rising vacancy rates and declining rents for multifamily and other rental
housing units. Overall, residential construction activity continued to rise in the District.
Financial Institutions The District's financial sector remained healthy in the most recent survey period.
Contacts reported that bank earnings and asset quality were sound. Respondents noted strong
household demand for credit. However, demand for business loans was weak, as businesses
remained cautious and continued to delay capital investments.

