National Summary The Beige Book ■ November 2017 Overall Economic Activity Economic activity continued to increase at a modest to moderate pace in October and mid-November, according to anecdotal reports from contacts across the 12 Federal Reserve Districts. There was a slight improvement in the outlook among contacts in reporting Districts. Pre-holiday reports of consumer spending on retail and autos were mixed but largely flat; still, the outlook for holiday sales was generally optimistic. Many Districts highlighted growth in the transpor- tation sector, although the New York District reported a slight softening and the San Francisco District noted that North- ern California wildfires temporarily reduced shipping volumes. Residential real estate activity remained constrained, with most Districts reporting little growth in sales or construction. By contrast, nonresidential activity was consistent with previous reports of slight growth. Loan demand was steady to moderately stronger. All Districts reported that manufac- turing activity expanded during the reporting period, with most describing growth as moderate. Among reporting Dis- tricts, manufacturing contacts predominantly expected activity to continue to pick up, although the Philadelphia and St. Louis Districts noted signs of a slowdown. Employment and Wages Employment growth has increased since the previous report, with most Districts characterizing growth as modest to moderate. Reports of tightness in the labor market were widespread. Most Districts reported employers were having difficulties finding qualified workers across various skill levels, and several Districts reported that an inability to find workers with the required skills was a key factor restraining hiring plans. Wage growth was modest or moderate in most Districts. Wage increases were most notable for professional, technical, and production positions that remain difficult to fill. Many Districts reported that employers were raising wages as well as increasing their use of signing bonuses and other nonwage benefits to retain or attract employees. Prices Price pressures have strengthened since the last report. Most Districts reported modest to moderate growth in selling prices and moderate increases in non-labor input costs. In particular, construction-material costs rose in most regions, with many Districts citing increased lumber costs and/or increases in demand for materials due to hurricane rebuilding efforts. Residential real estate prices generally increased as well. There were also reports of increases in costs in the transportation sector. Additionally, several Districts noted input cost increases in manufacturing. In many cases, these increases in transportation and manufacturing were passed through to consumers. Fuel prices also rose, with multiple Districts reporting upward pressure on oil and natural gas prices. However, agricultural price pressures remain mixed.
Highlights by Federal Reserve District
Boston New York
Economic activity continued to expand at a modest to Economic activity continued to expand moderately, while
moderate pace according to responding manufacturers, labor markets have remained tight. Input prices contin-
retailers, and staffing services firms. Labor markets ued to rise moderately, and selling prices rose modestly.
remained tight and some employers reported modest Housing markets and commercial real estate markets
wage increases. Price changes, if any, were limited. have been mixed but generally stable.
Respondents’ outlooks continued to be positive. 1

 National Summary
Philadelphia St. Louis
Overall, economic activity continued at a modest pace of Economic conditions have improved at a modest pace
growth, in particular for manufacturing, nonfinancial since our previous report. Labor market conditions re-
services, and tourism. Residential and nonresidential main tight, as most firms reported raising starting wages
construction and real estate activity increased slightly, and salaries as a way to attract new workers. The out-
while auto sales and non-auto retail sales declined look among firms surveyed in mid-November was gener-
slightly. On balance, wages and prices continued to grow ally optimistic. Though slightly weaker than the outlook
modestly, while employment resumed a modest pace of from our mid-August survey, it is a modest improvement
growth. from the outlook one year ago.
Cleveland Minneapolis
Business activity increased from that of the previous Economic activity in the Ninth District grew modestly.
reporting period, but the overall pace of growth was Employment continued to grow, though constrained by
moderate. Upward pressure increased further on wages, tight labor and some isolated softness, including plant
non-labor input costs, and selling prices. Retailers noted closures. Several indicators suggested that conditions in
a boost in store traffic. Capacity constraints in freight South Dakota were improving. Manufacturing remained
transportation tightened. The first-time home-buyer upbeat, and commercial and residential real estate saw
market may be negatively impacted by rising costs and growth. Agriculture continued to struggle, as strong
low inventory. harvests were not expected to offset low commodity prices.
Richmond
The regional economy continued to grow at a moderate Kansas City
rate, overall. Manufacturing and transportation activity Economic activity in the Tenth District increased moder-
remained strong. Retailers were optimistic about the ately. Manufacturing and other business services ex-
upcoming holiday shopping season. Residential home panded at a strong to moderate pace, and energy activi-
sales rose only modestly due to low inventories. Labor ty continued to increase modestly. Consumer spending
markets tightened further, which drove up wages for was mostly flat, with moderate growth expected. Agricul-
some workers. Price growth remained modest, overall. tural conditions weakened but at a slower pace, and many respondents noted increased hiring plans.
Atlanta
Economic conditions modestly improved since the previ- Dallas
ous report. Tightness in the labor market persisted and Economic activity grew moderately, and business had
wages grew modestly. Non-labor costs remained little mostly returned to normal after Hurricane Harvey. The
changed. Retail sales increased across most of the manufacturing sector remained a bright spot, and nonfi-
District. Tourism activity was mostly positive. Home nancial services activity continued to expand. Growth in
sales were flat to down, and home prices improved the energy sector subsided, but there was increased
slightly. Manufacturers indicated that activity modestly optimism for 2018. Retail sales remained strong and
increased. Credit was available. auto sales were still elevated, but the initial post- hurricane surge had begun to recede. Labor shortages
Chicago persisted, and there were widespread reports of in-
Economic activity increased slightly. Employment and creased wages.
manufacturing production increased modestly, while
consumer spending, business spending, and construc- San Francisco
tion and real estate activity increased slightly. Wages Economic activity in the Twelfth District continued to
rose modestly and prices rose slightly. Financial condi- expand at a moderate pace. Sales of retail goods grew
tions were little changed. Crop yields were below last moderately, and growth in the consumer and business
year’s records. services sectors remained strong. Conditions in the manufacturing sector remained solid. Activity in residen- tial real estate markets remained robust, while conditions in the commercial sector were strong. Lending activity grew at a moderate pace. 2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Boston The Beige Book ■ November 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Business activity in the First District continued to expand at a modest to moderate pace in recent weeks. With a few
exceptions, contacted retailers and manufacturers cited positive growth in sales or revenues. Most responding staffing
firms also realized revenue gains, even in the face of limited available labor. Commercial real estate markets were said
to be largely unchanged, with growth sectors and levels of activity varying across metro areas in the District. Most resi-
dential real estate markets in the region continued to be constrained by low inventories of homes for sale; meanwhile,
median sales prices rose in five of the six New England states. Retailers and manufacturers retained positive outlooks
about the US economy and customer demand.
Employment and Wages Retail
Respondents said hiring has generally been modest, Retailers reported that sales in October through mid-
partly because of short supplies of labor, and wage November remained even or grew by mid-single-digit
increases were becoming somewhat more widespread. percentages compared to a year earlier. These increas-
A couple of retail contacts expected to offer 2018 merit es principally came from new store openings or new
raises on the order of 2 percent to 3 percent; retailers business ventures, as year-over-year comparable-store
were hiring only in connection with new store openings. sales were characterized by low single-digit decreases
Only two manufacturing contacts reported significant or growth of less than 1 percent. A couple of retailers
hiring, both in semiconductor-related markets. A maker said that weather conditions, both the hurricanes in the
of testing equipment said that they were hiring mostly southeastern United States and warmer-than-usual fall
outside the United States; another indicated that salaries weather in the Northeast, contributed to these modest
were rising significantly only for engineers who remain comparable-store results. However, they also said the
difficult to hire and retain. At staffing firms, bill rates and results were indicative of larger shifts in the US retail
pay rates have reportedly begun to rise at a faster pace, environment, along with changing demographics: Baby
and clients were offering more generous signing bonus- Boomers are now at ages when they spend less on
es, paid leave, and other perks to attract talent. consumer goods like clothing and housewares, while younger adults are more apt to shop online rather than in
Prices stores. A competitive retail environment has also taught
Business respondents indicated little change in prices or consumers to wait for sales, such as the discounts of-
pricing practices. Retail contacts reported that selling fered on Black Friday and pre-Black Friday promotions.
prices mostly remained steady, though some items saw The holiday season is expected to help bolster year-end
moderate 1 percent to 3 percent increases. None of our revenues so that final fiscal year results show positive
manufacturing contacts reported notable pricing strength growth in the low single digits. Despite the challenging
or weakness. US retail environment that is prompting at least one contact to take a more conservative stance in 2018, most respondents said the US economy is strong and A-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Boston
this factor, combined with high employment and healthy Commercial Real Estate
labor markets, will encourage consumer spending. According to contacts, commercial real estate fundamen- tals in the First District were mostly flat in recent weeks
Manufacturing and Related Services amid mixed leasing activity. Office leasing activity stayed
Of the eight firms we contacted this cycle, six reported light in Hartford and Portland and moderate in Provi-
year-on-year sales growth in the most recent quarter. dence, while robust activity was seen in downtown Bos-
The two exceptions were a furniture company which ton. Class A office space has become quite scarce in
suspected that the weakness was largely seasonal and a Providence, resulting in competition among tenants and
paper manufacturer which said that sales were flat and upward pressure on rents. Buyer demand for warehouse
that significant marketing was required to avoid declining and industrial space remained strong throughout the
sales. Three semiconductor-related firms reported region, but (except for one large transaction) sales were
strength. One of our contacts in that industry said that restrained by lack of inventory. There were signs of an
demand growth had previously been confined to the auto uptick in condominium development activity in greater
industry but that in recent months, other parts of their Boston, along with further moderation in apartment con-
market expanded. A manufacturer of testing equipment struction. Investment sales demand in Boston held
said that most of their demand growth came from Eu- steady or softened slightly, and prices for prime proper-
rope, especially Germany, and that US growth was ties held steady. Office construction remained limited in
slowed by the hurricanes. A manufacturer of veterinary New England, while construction by medical and educa-
supplies said that people were willing to spend more and tional institutions continued to strengthen, and in the
more on their pets. Two firms reported upward revisions Portland area hotel construction increased further. Most
to their capital spending plans, but both described them contacts expect either steady or improving fundamentals
as idiosyncratic to the firm. moving forward, but the outlook remained weaker for
All the manufacturing respondents were optimistic about Hartford than for other major metro areas in the District.
2018. A maker of semiconductor equipment said that the
industry may reach the peak of its cycle relatively soon. Residential Real Estate Residential real estate markets in the First District contin-
Staffing Services ued to struggle with dwindling inventory and appreciating
New England staffing firms reported mixed results in home prices (September prices constitute the most
year-over-year revenue growth, with the majority of recent data in five of the seven areas, while New Hamp-
respondents achieving positive growth. All firms re- shire and Vermont reported October-to-October chang-
marked heavily on the sparse supply of labor and in- es). Closed sales for single family homes decreased in
creased search cost in locating talent while noting that all areas but Maine and Vermont. For condos, closed
labor demand remains very strong across the board. sales were down in Massachusetts, Boston, and Con-
Health and tech jobs were reportedly particularly difficult necticut, and up elsewhere.
to fill. Several also noted that increasing options for job As usual, many contacts cited upward pressure on pric-
seekers were resulting in more declined job offers and es as an issue resulting from the shortage of inventory.
putting pressure on hiring firms to improve their packag- For single family homes, the median sales prices were
es for prospective employees. Most are devoting re- up in all areas but Connecticut. Condo prices displayed a
sources to improving their recruitment, both in technolog- similar upward trend, except in Boston and Vermont.
ical efficiency and increased advertising, looking for new
ways to reach potential hires. Contacts expressed some Residential contacts expressed concern about the possi-
concern over uncertainty in health insurance markets, ble impact of the tax reform bill in Congress, which they
local minimum wage increases, and potential changes in feared could increase the cost of buying a home and
the federal tax code, and what these would mean for the disrupt the housing market.■
labor market.
All respondents expected tight labor market conditions to
continue into 2018, and most saw a more challenging
market for staffing firms with increased competition for
the remaining labor supply. For more information about District economic conditions visit: www.bostonfed.org/regional-economy A-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of New York The Beige Book ■ November 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Economic activity in the Second District continued to grow at a moderate pace in the latest reporting period, and the
labor market has been steady and tight. Input prices continued to increase moderately, and selling prices continued to
rise modestly. Manufacturers reported that growth slowed to a moderate pace, while businesses engaged in wholesale
trade, leisure & hospitality, and professional & business services reported brisk growth. However, contacts in health &
education services and transportation noted slight softening in activity. Consumer spending was generally steady since
the last report, as was consumer confidence. Housing markets have been mixed, with particular weakness at the high
end of both the sales and rental markets. Commercial real estate markets were steady, on balance. New residential
development and office construction have slowed, but new industrial development has picked up. Finally, banks report-
ed a pullback in demand for home mortgage loans and ongoing declines in delinquency rates across all loan categories.
Employment and Wages Selling prices overall continued to rise modestly, though
The labor market has been steady and tight. Employ- contacts in the leisure & hospitality industries noted
ment agencies generally report that labor market condi- stronger price increases. But within that sector, for ex-
tions have been little changed. Still, one major New York ample, price increases have varied: while hotel room
City agency notes that hiring activity has been busy for rates have been essentially flat, Broadway theater ticket
this time of year. Businesses have reported ongoing prices have accelerated and were up more than 15
difficulty finding qualified workers, particularly in manu- percent from a year earlier. In general, retail prices have
facturing. been stable, though some general merchandise stores noted increased discounting. Looking ahead, the only
Business contacts across most industries indicated that sectors in which businesses planned any noticeable
they continue to increase staffing levels modestly. Simi- price hikes were in wholesale trade and transportation.
larly, hiring plans for the months ahead have remained
moderately positive, on net, with particularly strong hiring Consumer Spending
expected in the finance sector. A contact in upstate New Retail contacts reported that sales have been steady in
York noted that some retailers plan less seasonal hiring recent weeks. Retailers in upstate New York indicated
this year. that both traffic and sales activity remained steady. Con- tacts in the New York City area gave a mixed assess-
Overall, contacts indicated that wages have continued to ment, but overall sales were little changed. Retail busi-
rise modestly. Further, businesses in a broad range of nesses were mildly optimistic about the near-term out-
industries said they plan to raise wages in the months look, and inventories were said to be in good shape.
ahead—most notably in the leisure & hospitality, educa-
tion & health, transportation, and trade sectors. Auto sales have been mixed but, on balance, steady since the last report. Dealers in upstate New York report-
Prices ed that demand for new vehicles remained fairly robust
Input prices have continued to rise moderately in most in October but not quite on par with September’s brisk
industry sectors, with the exception of retail, where con- levels. However, scattered increases were reported in
tacts reported more significant cost increases. used vehicle sales. Vehicle inventories were said to be a B-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of New York
bit on the high side but mostly at satisfactory levels. the high end. One contact noted that some newly-
Retail and wholesale credit conditions have remained developed high-end properties have recently sold for
favorable, according to dealers. roughly 25 percent below the initial asking price.
Consumer confidence in the Middle Atlantic states (NY, Rental markets have been steady to softer. Rents across
NJ, PA), held steady at a high level in October. New York City have edged down overall, again led by the high end of the market, where landlord concessions
Manufacturing and Distribution have remained steady at high levels. Manhattan’s rental
Manufacturers reported continued growth in business vacancy rate, though still quite low, has reportedly risen
activity in recent weeks, though to a lesser degree than for three straight months.
in recent months. Contacts in the wholesale trade sector
noted a further acceleration in business, whereas trans- Commercial real estate markets have been mixed. Office
portation firms reported some pullback in activity. Look- availability rates have climbed modestly in New York City
ing ahead, manufacturers continued to express wide- and Long Island but have remained essentially flat
spread optimism about the near-term outlook, while across the rest of New York State, southwestern Con-
wholesale distributors and transportation firms were necticut and northern New Jersey. Asking rents have
moderately optimistic. risen in Manhattan and upstate New York but remained flat elsewhere. The market for industrial space has re-
Services mained fairly strong. In upstate New York, industrial
Service-sector firms noted some pickup in growth. Con- rents have continued to rise at a nearly 10 percent pace,
tacts in leisure & hospitality and professional & business while vacancy rates have declined to multi-year lows.
services reported fairly widespread increases in activity, Industrial rents have risen at a more than 5 percent rate
while information industry firms indicated modest im- in downstate New York and northern New Jersey, while
provement. Education & health service providers indicat- vacancy rates in those areas remain steady near multi-
ed that activity was flat to slightly lower, on balance. year lows. Retail vacancy rates have continued to rise
Service sector businesses were generally optimistic across New York City.
about the near-term outlook—particularly those in busi-
ness & professional services. New multi-family construction has wound down through- out the District, though a good deal of residential space
New York City hotels reported brisk business, though an remains under construction. New commercial develop-
expanding supply of hotel rooms, largely in a moderate ment has slowed as well. New office development has
price range, has held room rates down. Broadway thea- picked up in Long Island but has largely ground to a halt
ters reported that attendance was flat to somewhat lower elsewhere. New industrial development, on the other
in October and early November and down from a year hand, has picked up in New York City’s outer boroughs
earlier. An authority on New York City’s tourism industry and in upstate New York and remains at a fairly brisk
noted that domestic tourism has been increasingly ro- level in northern New Jersey.
bust, while tourism from overseas has receded, though
by less than had been expected. Banking and Finance Small to medium-sized banks in the District reported
Real Estate and Construction lower demand for residential mortgages, higher demand
Housing markets across the District have been mixed for commercial mortgages and C&I loans, and steady
but, on balance, stable. Real estate contacts in upstate demand for consumer loans. Bankers also reported that
New York report that sales volume has receded some- refinancing activity decreased, on balance, for all types
what but remains quite strong, while prices have contin- of loans. Credit standards were reported to be un-
ued to climb, driven by sturdy demand and low invento- changed across all loan categories. Bankers noted lower
ries. Housing markets across New York State have loan spreads for C&I loans, and unchanged spreads
exhibited a similar pattern, with prices statewide running across all other loan categories. Finally, banks reported
about 6 percent ahead of a year ago. Northern New lower delinquency rates in all loan categories. ■
Jersey’s market, in contrast, has seen sales volume
growing but prices generally flat. Similarly, sales of New
York City co-ops and condos have picked up, while For more information about District economic conditions visit:
prices have been mixed but overall flat—rising modestly www.newyorkfed.org/data-and-statistics/regional-data- center/index.html
at the low to middle range of the market but declining at B-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia The Beige Book ■ November 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Aggregate business activity in the Third District continued at a modest pace of growth during the current Beige Book
period. Manufacturing, nonfinancial services, and tourism grew modestly, while new home construction, existing home
sales, nonresidential construction, and leasing appeared to grow slightly. Auto sales and nonauto retail sales appeared
to decline slightly, after growing and remaining steady, respectively, during the prior period. On balance, employment
resumed a modest pace of growth, and wages and prices continued to grow modestly. Overall, firms appear to antici-
pate continued growth over the next six months, but with a somewhat smaller percentage of firms expecting growth.
Employment and Wages turing firms reporting increases changed little, while the
Employment resumed a modest pace of growth during percentage of nonmanufacturing firms rose. A majority of
the current Beige Book period following a lull during the contacts indicated no change in prices paid and re-
prior period. Reports of net additions to staff rose for ceived.
both manufacturing and nonmanufacturing firms. Aver- Retailers and banking contacts continued to report no
age hours worked changed little over the period for signs of inflationary pressure, while homebuilders, re-
manufacturing firms but dipped a bit among nonmanu- ported increases for a broadening array of construction
facturers. Retailers reported little change to their typical materials, including lumber and products containing
hiring plans in preparation for the holidays. petroleum. Overall, existing home prices continued to
On balance, wage growth held steady at a modest pace, edge up, with some variance across markets and price
with about 40 percent of nonmanufacturing firms report- categories.
ing increases. Numerous firms have reported a lack of Looking ahead one year, firms anticipate a 2.1 percent
qualified labor for skilled positions or that they are offer- increase in prices received for their own goods and
ing a somewhat higher entry-level wage to attract labor. services — a bit lower than one quarter prior. Firms also
Staffing firms continued to report difficulties filling job reported expectations of about 2.4 percent annual infla-
orders and noted that an inordinate amount of their tion for consumers — also lower than earlier in the fall.
business is refilling positions due to turnovers, including
quits by recent placements. Manufacturing On balance, manufacturing activity continued at a mod-
Prices est pace of growth, but signs of a slowdown emerged.
On balance, price levels continued to rise modestly. The percentage of firms reporting increases in new
Across all contacts, the percentage of firms reporting orders and shipments fell compared with the prior period.
increases in prices received for their own goods and
services was lower during the current period than the The makers of paper products, chemicals, primary metal
prior period. For prices paid, the percentage of manufac- products, fabricated metal products, and industrial ma- C-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia
chinery continued to note gains in new orders and ship- Beige Book period. Loan volumes grew modestly in most
ments; firms in the lumber and electronic equipment categories, including mortgages, commercial real estate,
sectors reported declines in activity. commercial and industrial loans, and other consumer loans. Growth in auto loan volumes was stronger, while
Generally, manufacturing contacts continued to expect home equity lines were flat over the period. Credit card
growth over the next six months. The percentage of firms volumes — which are highly seasonal — changed little
expecting future increases for general activity dipped over the Beige Book period, which is similar to the same
somewhat but remains above 50 percent. However, the period last year.
percentage of firms expecting increases held mostly
steady regarding future capital expenditures and rose a Banking contacts tended to describe economic growth
bit for future employment. as slow and steady. On balance, loan portfolios were described as healthy, with low delinquencies and no
Consumer Spending significant signs of concern.
On balance, nonauto retail sales may have fallen slightly,
essentially little changed from the prior Beige Book peri- Real Estate and Construction
od. Mall and outlets operators noted that unseasonably After little change through the summer and early fall,
warm weather depressed sales of winter apparel. An homebuilders generally reported a slight pickup in activi-
outlets operator reported that overall October sales were ty during the current period, particularly in the early
flat compared with last year. Convenience store contacts weeks of November. In one area where single-family
reported that business remained soft, as customers home construction remained weak, a builder noted that
chase value and competition expands. demand for remodeling work was strong.
Auto dealers reported slight declines overall in year-over On balance, brokers in Third District housing markets
-year sales this period, a retreat from the modest in- reported that ongoing weak inventory levels have slowed
creases during the prior period. Dealers were hopeful for existing home sales to a slight pace of growth in the
stronger sales at year end, beginning with Black Friday, current period. Vacation home markets are an exception
to boost 2017 totals. Manufacturers continued to provide due to a recent resurgence of second home purchases.
incentives for dealers to sustain sales. Nonresidential real estate contacts continued to report
Tourism contacts generally indicated a continuation of slight growth at high levels in construction activity. Archi-
modest growth. A Philadelphia analyst reported that tecture and engineering contacts reported record years,
overall travel demand remains stronger than in the prior with particularly strong demand for institutional and
year period, locally and nationally. In September, Atlantic energy-related projects. Industrial/warehouse markets
City’s casino revenues resumed a modest rate of growth throughout the Third District are generally characterized
relative to the prior year and sustained that growth in by rising rates and ongoing strong demand for new
October. A Delaware shore hotel operator noted some construction. Leasing activity also appeared to grow
weakening of rooms booked, room rates, and overall slightly, although markets vary significantly by sector and
levels of spending at area stores and restaurants; how- geography. ■
ever, the prior year had been very strong.
Nonfinancial Services
Service-sector firms have continued to report modest
growth in general activity since the prior Beige Book
period; however, new orders and sales softened some-
what, as did reports of general activity. Expectations
about future growth have lessened somewhat since the
prior Beige Book period but remained positive, with
about 50 percent of the firms anticipating increased
activity.
Financial Services For more information about District economic conditions visit:
Financial firms reported modest growth of overall loan www.philadelphiafed.org/research-and-data/regional-
volumes (excluding credit cards) — similar to the prior economy C-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland The Beige Book ■ November 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Business activity grew at a moderate pace in the Fourth District since our last report. Labor markets continued to tight-
en. Challenges in attracting and retaining qualified workers contributed to wage pressures. Supply chain disruptions
furthered upward pressure on input costs. Retailers saw a boost in brick-and-mortar traffic, while new motor vehicle
sales strengthened. Manufacturing output grew at a modest pace overall, but production at District motor vehicle assem-
bly plants trended lower. Nonfinancial services and freight transport firms saw moderate to strong gains in activity.
Homebuilders and realtors expressed concern about the impact of rising home prices on the first-time buyer market.
Activity in commercial real estate remained elevated.
Employment and Wages from recent hurricanes and ongoing disputes with Cana-
A boost in hiring that began in the third quarter continued da over lumber tariffs. Manufacturers cited hurricane-
during the survey period. The strongest activity was related damage to petrochemical plants as the primary
found in the construction and nonfinancial services sec- reason for near-term price spikes for a wide-range of
tors. Retailers reported a seasonal increase in payrolls. petrochemical products. One report indicated that the
The spike in bank hiring late in the third quarter has price of resins has risen 20 percent. Another manufactur-
faded. Staffing changes at banks are now in line with er pointed to speculation driving up commodity prices to
levels seen for most of 2017. A majority of contacts unsustainably high levels, causing material costs to grow
reported they are replacing departed workers and that significantly. However, he expects these prices to fall
the share of firms creating new jobs remains high. At- from these high levels. The home building and freight
tracting and retaining qualified workers, both low- and hauling industries reported the highest share of compa-
high-skilled, is a challenge facing many of our contacts nies raising their selling prices. Several freight haulers
across industry sectors. A growing number of firms reported that FEMA contracted with carriers from across
reported increasing wages more frequently or giving mid- the country to assist in hurricane rebuilding, further limit-
year bonuses as a means of retention. The strongest ing freight capacity, which is already tight. The end result
wage pressures were found in the banking and retail is a boost in freight rates and higher labor costs. Once
sectors. the hurricane damage is overcome, expectations are that freight rates will decline.
Prices
Upward pressure on input costs remained strong, while Consumer Spending
the share of contacts who reported they were increasing Retailers’ outlooks were generally more upbeat when
selling prices was at its highest level since the end of the compared to their outlooks during recent reporting peri-
second quarter. Higher input costs were widespread in ods. A few contacts noted that efforts to improve the
the construction, manufacturing, and nonfinancial ser- customers’ shopping experiences, including technology
vices sectors. Construction contractors generally attribut- upgrades, have resulted in increased store traffic. A
ed higher materials prices to rebuilding efforts resulting specialty apparel chain reported that consumers seemed D-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland
a little more confident and that the chain’s products are Comments from commercial contractors were mainly
resonating with customers. A furniture retailer said that unchanged from our last report. Activity remains at ele-
despite higher expectations set earlier in the year, he is vated levels. Property development was broad based
still experiencing revenue growth across his stores rang- except in retail, for which demand continued to be weak.
ing from 2 percent to 5 percent. Most contacts are cau- Backlogs were stable at high levels. The downturn in
tiously optimistic heading into the holiday shopping sea- inquires cited in the third quarter has abated. A moderate
son. Year-to-date unit sales through September of new increase was reported in selling prices for office and
motor vehicles rose 2 percent compared to those of a industrial properties during the first nine months of 2017
year ago. That said, auto dealers reported that they are compared to those of the same period a year ago. Dur-
starting to see a slowing in demand after seven consecu- ing the same time-frame, reports indicated a decline in
tive years of gains. One OEM remarked that the outlook the number of apartments coming on the market. Apart-
for 2018 and 2019 is uncertain, but early projections call ment rents continued to trend moderately higher.
for new vehicle transactions nationally to decline about 2
percent from 2017 levels. Banking Business and consumer lending increased during the
Manufacturing period, but both segments reported a modest pace of
Little change was seen in the manufacturing sector growth. On the business side, M&A financing and CRE
during the period, with output largely expanding at a loans are healthy, while the market for C&I loans to
modest pace. The strongest levels of activity were re- manufacturers is soft. Indirect auto lending and purchase
ported by suppliers to the aerospace, consumer elec- mortgages remain relatively strong. When asked about
tronics, motor vehicle, oil and gas, and residential con- why lending is not growing at a more robust pace, one
struction industries. An aerospace executive noted that banker reported that because of government uncertainty,
her industry is reporting strong backlogs and order books customers are moving back to the sidelines. Another
and more aggressive production schedules. Steel pro- contact said that although the economic environment is
ducers and service centers are seeing rising volume. positive, it is not yet strong. Some bankers mentioned
One service center indicated that volume increased 13 their uncertainty about how much of their market share is
percent when compared to year-ago levels. Year-to-date being captured by non-bank lenders, especially for C&I
production through September at District auto assembly loans. Credit quality was stable at a strong level.
plants declined about 20 percent when compared to that
of the same period a year earlier. The decrease can be Nonfinancial Services
attributed to retooling for two next-generation vehicles Freight volume generally increased beyond what can be
and to cutbacks in small passenger car production. accounted for by seasonal factors. Rail and trucking
Manufacturers reported an increase in spending for plant firms cited growth in manufacturing output and the ener-
expansions and product development after spending gy sector and a need to deliver supplies for hurricane
declines in the third quarter. The outlook by our contacts relief as driving stronger demand. There is concern
calls for a gradual pickup in the pace of growth in the about the industry’s facing capacity constraints by year’s
near term. end because of electronic logging device requirements
Real Estate and Construction and rebuilding from recent hurricanes.
Year-to-date unit sales through September of new and Professional and business services firms saw moderate
existing single-family homes increased 1 percent com- to strong gains in activity during the period. Engineering
pared to those of a year earlier. The average sales price and architecture firms attributed the gains to clients’
rose 5 percent. Homebuilders are concerned about rising rising capital budgets. One architect reported a two-year
input costs (land, development, materials, and labor) and backlog. An IT firm remarked that clients continue to
the negative impact these costs may have on the first- migrate toward cloud-based solutions versus premise-
time buyer market. One builder reported that he can no based solutions as clients struggle to staff their own IT
longer build a starter home for less than $200,000. A departments. ■
realtor noted that although the market is seeing a high
number of first-time buyers, the major challenge is a
shortage of properties, a limitation which results in multi-
ple-offer situations. D-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond The Beige Book ■ November 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
The Fifth District economy grew at a moderate rate since our last Beige Book report. Manufacturers noted a moderate
rise in new orders and shipments, and they generally expected strong growth over the next six months. District ports
continued to see high volumes, particularly for imports. Trucking firms reported robust growth, in part due to relief ship-
ments being sent to hurricane-affected areas. Retailers were optimistic ahead of the holiday shopping season. Tourism
remained robust as mild weather helped boost activity. Residential home sales rose modestly and the inventory of hous-
es for sale remained low. Commercial real estate leasing increased moderately. Residential loan demand was little
changed in recent weeks, while commercial, small business, and agriculture lending picked up. Nonfinancial services
firms reported moderate revenue growth. The demand for labor increased moderately in recent weeks while wage in-
creases remained modest. Prices continued to grow at a modest pace.
Employment and Wages example, an IT service provider noted that it was able to
The demand for labor strengthened moderately in recent raise prices considerably in recent months without losing
weeks as employment agencies reported growth in new any customers. Likewise, an elevator servicing firm was
job openings across all industries and anticipated contin- raising prices substantially across all lines of business
ued high demand for the rest of the year. Employers (routine service, repair, and modernization). Food ser-
continued to report a tight labor market with limited sup- vices firms reported modest price increases across many
ply of qualified candidates. Executives noted difficulty food categories. Both manufacturing and services firms
finding skilled mechanics, electricians, engineers, infor- commented on rising health insurance costs.
mation technology specialists, hospitality workers, nurs-
es, truck drivers, construction managers, and construc- Manufacturing
tion workers. Additionally, retailers had difficulties finding On balance, manufacturing firms reported moderate
extra seasonal help. Wage increases remained modest, growth in new orders and shipments in recent weeks.
overall, but contacts continued to suggest that wage Manufacturers of plastic, rubber, paper, and transporta-
pressures increased. In particular, wages reportedly rose tion equipment noted strong growth in new orders. Also,
for airport workers, truck drivers, and for some nonfinan- electrical and medical equipment producers saw in-
cial services workers that were in high demand. creased sales. Contacts experienced longer vendor lead times, and some businesses continued to report delayed
Prices customer shipments due to Hurricane Irma and Hurri-
Since our previous report, prices continued to grow at a cane Harvey. Expectations were more upbeat, as pro-
moderate rate. According to our latest surveys, manufac- ducers anticipated strong increases in new orders and
turing input prices rose moderately while final goods shipments for the next six months.
prices rose more modestly. There were reports of manu-
facturers paying higher prices for plastics, lumber, cop- Ports and Transportation
per, electricity, and freight. Additionally, a paper manu- District ports reported increases in shipments in recent
facturer noted a substantial increase in pulp prices. In months, driven mainly by growth in imports. One District
the service sector, price growth remained modest over- port noted that it handled more volume in October than
all, with some instances of larger price increases. For in any month on record. Ports remained optimistic that E-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
shipments would remain high in the near future. trial, class A office, grocery-anchored shopping centers, and medical projects. Brokers indicated that the number
Trucking companies in the District saw robust business of newly announced multifamily construction projects
growth in recent months. Firms continued to report in- decreased across the District.
creased demand and higher prices as relief shipments
were sent to hurricane affected areas. A shortage of Banking and Finance
drivers has persisted in the District, even as firms raised On the whole, loan demand increased modestly since
wages, leading some trucking companies to turn away our previous report. Residential mortgage demand was
business. generally characterized as stable. A lender in Virginia reported an increase in mortgage loans, but attributed it
Retail, Travel, and Tourism to more advertising and concessions on closing costs.
Reports on retail sales were somewhat positive in recent Meanwhile, a banker in North Carolina said the low
weeks. Many District retailers noted moderate growth in inventory of homes for sale was restraining mortgage
sales so far this year and were optimistic heading into loan growth. Commercial lending activity rose moderate-
the holiday season. A Virginia home decor store reported ly in recent weeks. A banker in Baltimore saw an in-
customer traffic above the seasonal norm and strong crease in commercial real estate lending for multi-family
sales even as prices rose. On the downside, some small and senior housing facilities. Small business and agricul-
clothing stores saw slightly weaker sales. A South Caro- ture lending rose modestly, according to contacts in
lina auto dealer reported robust growth. However, a Virginia and North Carolina. On balance, interest rates
Virginia auto dealer reported a drop in sales of high-end and net interest margins increased slightly in recent
vehicles. weeks. Credit quality remained strong while credit stand-
Tourism has remained robust since our previous report. ards were generally unchanged.
Hotels across the District reported that bookings were up
over last year, and a South Carolina hotel had record Non-Financial Services
revenues in October. A Virginia resort attributed recent District services firms reported moderate growth in reve-
increases in bookings and golfing to good weather. nues in recent weeks. The strongest reports came from
Conversely, visits to D.C. museums and monuments fell wholesalers, telecom firms, performing arts centers,
slightly. vehicle repair services, and utilities. A contact from a Maryland utility company said business was growing
Real Estate and Construction week after week. Likewise, a Virginia natural gas utility
Residential real estate firms indicated modest growth, reported that revenues were growing as temperatures
overall. District agents reported steady levels of buyer were falling in recent weeks. Business also picked up for
traffic, although home sales rose only modestly due to legal firms, accounting firms, defense contractors, and IT
very limited inventory. Home prices continued to rise service providers across the District. ■
modestly. Average days on the market decreased since
the previous report, as most contacts stated that homes
were on the market for about 45 days. In some markets,
brokers said that they have seen more appraisals com-
ing in under contract price due to limited comparable
home sales. Although new home sales continued to
improve modestly, new home construction remained
subdued.
Commercial real estate leasing rose moderately in re-
cent weeks. Contacts reported increased leasing activity
for large industrial space and small retail space, while
office leasing rose modestly for urban class A space.
Vacancy rates remained low across all sub-markets. In
particular, brokers said that large industrial and distribu-
tion spaces were in high demand, but limited supply.
Rental rates increased moderately for retail and industri-
al spaces, and some executives reported modest in-
creases for urban office space. Commercial construction For more information about District economic conditions visit:
increased for several types of structures, including indus- www.richmondfed.org/research/regional_economy E-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta The Beige Book ■ November 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Reports from Sixth District business contacts described economic conditions as modestly improving since the previous
report. Most businesses continue to expect slow and steady growth for the remainder of the year. District firms contin-
ued to describe a tight labor market as many faced difficulty finding workers. Wage growth remained modest. On bal-
ance, nonlabor input costs were stable. Retail sales, including auto, increased across most of the District. Reports from
the hospitality sector were mostly positive. Residential real estate contacts noted that home sales were flat to down,
although home prices improved modestly from the previous report. Commercial real estate contacts continued to report
that the pace of construction had picked up from a year ago. Manufacturers indicated that activity grew at a modest
pace since the previous report. Bankers reported that ample credit was available.
Employment and Wages perspective, these non-wage mechanisms were increas-
The District, specifically Florida, incurred notable payroll ing in importance as compared with compensation.
losses in September because of Hurricane Irma. Con- Prices
tacts continued to cite challenges filling highly skilled/ While the majority of non-labor input cost changes re-
specialized and low-skilled/entry-level positions. Several ported were modest, several contacts mentioned a re-
firms noted broadening their geographical search for cent uptick in costs, most notably in transportation. Con-
candidates, and some expanded their physical presence tacts also reported little pricing power. The Atlanta Fed’s
to new locations where they expected more abundant Business Inflation Expectations survey showed year-
labor supply. In a survey of business contacts, most over-year unit costs were up 1.7 percent in October.
respondents indicated that they planned to increase Survey respondents also indicated that they expect unit
employment over the next 12 months as a result of costs to rise 1.8 percent over the next twelve months.
expected sales growth, a need for skills not possessed
by current staff, and to mitigate concerns about current Consumer Spending and Tourism
staff being overworked. The top factors restraining hiring Most District retailers reported that sales levels rose
plans were challenges finding workers with required modestly since the last report. The outlook remains
skills and a desire to keep operating costs low. Amidst optimistic for the upcoming holiday season. Post Hurri-
these challenges, in an effort to attract workers, most cane Irma, automobile dealers noted an increase in the
respondents reported that they raised wages, signing momentum of auto sales.
bonuses, or total compensation offered. District contacts noted that Florida tourism activity
Contacts continued to report some wage growth, with bounced back after Hurricane Irma with the exception of
acceleration in highly skilled/specialized positions or in the Florida Keys. Marketing efforts across various cities
highly competitive geographic labor markets. Firms emphasized that the state was open for tourism. Georgia
continued to use non-wage mechanisms to attract and to and Louisiana contacts reported continued growth in
retain talent and keep wages down. Business contacts business, leisure, and group travel. Year to date, Missis-
continued to describe efforts to enhance and modernize sippi casino gaming revenues decreased compared to a
their corporate culture in order to encourage people to year ago. The outlook among most contacts for the first
join the firm and to build loyalty among existing employ- quarter of 2018 remains optimistic.
ees. Staffing agencies shared that from the job seeker’s F-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
Construction and Real Estate tainer trade. Truck freight volumes accelerated further
Relative to a year-ago, District brokers and builders and increased shipments of rebuilding supplies to Texas
indicated home sales were flat to down in September. and Florida contributed to capacity constraints in the
Most builders reported that buyer traffic was flat to down, aftermath of Hurricanes Harvey and Irma. Logistics
while brokers gave mixed reports. Builders cited flat to contacts reported that they anticipate considerable year-
higher inventory levels, while most brokers noted lower over-year increases in e-commerce shipments during the
inventories. Most builders and brokers reported that holiday season.
home prices increased in September. Builder reports on Banking and Finance
construction activity came in mixed. The majority of Credit remained readily available for most qualified bor-
builders reported labor cost increases from year-ago rowers, although some contacts faced challenges obtain-
levels and most said material costs had increased over ing financing for long-term residential developments.
the same period. Over the next three months, many Credit tightened somewhat for energy-related industries.
contacts expect home sales to be flat and construction Liquidity was plentiful, but some banking contacts report-
activity to hold steady or increase slightly. The majority ed pressure to increase deposit rates. Some bankers
of builders and half of broker respondents indicated that noted increased competition for loans.
Irma had an impact on their business and that they faced
higher material prices, a shortage of materials in some Energy
cases, tighter than normal labor markets, less buyer Overall, energy contacts reported a steady pace of activ-
traffic, and activity and sales delays. ity. They noted that the new natural gas pipeline capacity that came online was facilitating the demand for export
Many commercial real estate contacts reported improve- of liquid natural gas. Both crude oil and gasoline invento-
ments in demand that resulted in rent growth and contin- ries continued to decrease; however, levels were higher
ued to caution that improvement varied by metropolitan than the average range. Contacts reported that industrial
area, submarket, and property type. The majority of and commercial utility usage remained flat. Broadly,
contractors indicated that the pace of nonresidential utility contacts indicated they are preparing for a colder
construction activity had increased from one year ago; winter than the previous year.
most reported healthy backlogs. Commercial construc-
tion contacts’ expectations for the pace of nonresidential Agriculture
construction were mixed, while their outlook for the pace Agriculture conditions across the District were mixed.
of multifamily construction continued to level off. Most of the District remained drought free although parts of Alabama, Georgia, Louisiana, and Mississippi were
Manufacturing classified as abnormally dry or in moderate drought
Manufacturers reported that business activity expanded conditions. Initial assessments of Hurricane Irma’s dam-
at a modest pace compared with the previous period. age to Florida’s agriculture industry indicated that citrus
Contacts indicated that production levels decreased, growers felt the biggest impact; nursery crops, sugar-
while new orders and finished inventory levels remained cane, vegetable and non-citrus fruit, cattle, and dairy
relatively flat. Hiring activity increased at a healthy pace also reported losses. Compared to last year, District crop
and supplier delivery times were reported to be slightly production forecasts were up for soybeans, peanuts,
longer than in the previous report. Purchasing managers cotton, and sugarcane, and down for rice and pecans.
stated that input prices continued to increase. Contacts’ On a year-over-year basis, prices paid to farmers in
outlooks for future production were relatively unchanged September were up for corn, rice, oranges, broilers, and
from the previous period, with about half expecting high-
er production levels over the next six months. eggs and were down for cotton, soybeans, and beef. ■
Transportation
On balance, transportation activity in the District was
relatively unchanged since the previous report. Year to
date, total rail traffic was down compared with year earli-
er levels, as shipments of grain, petroleum and petrole-
um products, and metallic ores declined by double digits.
These were only slightly offset by modest increases in
movements of pulp and paper products, non-metallic
minerals, and coal. Intermodal traffic continued to im- For more information about District economic conditions visit:
prove. Port contacts reported sustained growth in con- www.frbatlanta.org/economy-matters/regional-economics F-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago The Beige Book ■ November 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Economic activity in the Seventh District increased slightly in October and early November, but contacts expected
growth to accelerate to a moderate pace over the next 6 to 12 months. Employment and manufacturing production
increased modestly, while consumer spending, business spending, and construction and real estate activity increased
slightly. Wages rose modestly and prices rose slightly. Financial conditions were little changed. Crop yields were below
last year’s record.
Employment and Wages reported increases in costs for raw materials, particularly
Employment growth continued at a modest pace over construction materials. Most firms reported rising bene-
the reporting period, and contacts expected it to continue fits costs.
at that rate over the next 6 to 12 months. Contacts con- Consumer Spending
tinued to indicate that the labor market was tight and Consumer spending increased slightly over the reporting
reported difficulty filling positions at all skill levels. A period. Non-auto retail sales were up slightly, with gains
manufacturing firm reported turning down business reported in the furniture, electronics, entertainment, and
because it was unable to find qualified workers. To ad- food and beverage sectors, but declines reported in the
dress the challenge of finding qualified workers, firms apparel sector. A contact noted that Halloween sales
reported that they were raising compensation, increasing were stronger than expected and that this was a positive
advertising for positions, and training less-qualified new indicator for the holiday season. New light vehicle sales
hires. Hiring was focused on professional and technical, in the District moved down. One dealer indicated that the
sales, and production workers. That said, a staffing firm decline was concentrated in the high-end segment. Used
that primarily supplies manufacturers with production vehicle sales were little changed.
workers reported little change in billable hours. Wage
growth remained modest overall. Contacts raising wages Business Spending
were more likely to do so for select roles than for all Business spending increased slightly in October and
workers. Wage increases were more prevalent for pro- early November. Retail and manufacturing contacts
fessional and technical, sales, and production workers. indicated that inventories were generally at comfortable
There was also a notable increase in the number of firms levels. Capital spending increased slightly, and contacts
reporting wage increases for management positions. expected spending to increase modestly over the next six to twelve months. Outlays were primarily for replacing
Prices industrial and IT equipment and for renovating struc-
Overall, prices increased slightly in October and early tures, though there was again an increase in the number
November. Retail prices were little changed for most of contacts reporting spending for capacity expansion.
categories of spending. A number of contacts again G-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago
Demand for residential, commercial, and industrial ener- and loan quality was unchanged. Consumer loan volume
gy was flat, as a slight increase in the number of com- was also little changed on balance. Demand for both
mercial hook-ups was offset by improvements in custom- home and auto loans edged down, with contacts noting
ers’ energy efficiency. Demand for transportation ser- an uptick in delinquencies in auto loan payments. An
vices increased moderately. auto dealer reported that credit had tightened noticeably for buyers with credit scores at the lower end of the
Construction and Real Estate subprime category. Credit card volume increased slightly
Construction and real estate activity increased slightly on and quality was unchanged.
balance over the reporting period. Residential construc-
tion edged higher. In the low-priced single-family seg- Agriculture
ment, contacts indicated that few large-scale develop- Crop yields in the District were below last year’s record.
ments were in progress, and that only large developers Widespread rains slowed the harvest, but helped areas
with good credit were undertaking these projects. Home that had been experiencing drought conditions. With
sales were flat in recent weeks as low inventory levels in both corn and soybean prices lower than a year ago,
the starter home segment continued to constrain sales. farm revenues were expected to be down. Contacts
There were reports that starter homes were receiving indicated that some crop operations would be unable to
multiple offers and closing well above asking prices. In cover their expenses, which led to a deterioration in
contrast, sales of high-priced homes lagged. Home agricultural credit conditions and spurred sales of assets
prices edged higher overall, but varied by price level: to cover losses. In some cases, higher livestock income
prices increased noticeably for homes under $250,000, helped offset crop losses. Hog and cattle prices moved
modestly for homes between $250,000 and $500,000, up during the reporting period, leading to plans for ex-
and were down slightly for homes over $500,000. Non- panded production. Milk prices were lower, but cheese
residential construction increased slightly, with growth prices stayed high. ■
spread across market segments. Commercial real estate
activity also increased slightly and was at a strong level.
That said, demand for large brick and mortar retail space
continued to fall from an already low point. Commercial
rents and vacancy rates edged lower, but the availability
of sublease space edged higher.
Manufacturing
Growth in manufacturing production continued at a mod-
est pace in October and early November. Activity in the
auto and aerospace sectors picked up slightly. Steel
production was little changed but remained at a healthy
level. Demand for heavy machinery increased steadily,
with growth spread across the construction, mining, and
utilities sectors. One contact indicated that exports to
Canada were artificially high as stricter regulations on
emissions that begin in 2018 pulled sales into late 2017.
Order books for specialty metals manufacturers in-
creased modestly, with growth spread across a wide
variety of sectors. Manufacturers of construction materi-
als continued to report slow but steady increases in
shipments, in line with the pace of improvement in con-
struction.
Banking and Finance
Financial conditions were little changed on balance over
the reporting period. Market participants noted that vola- For more information about District economic conditions visit:
tility continued to be low. Business loan volume was flat chicagofed.org/cfsbc G-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis The Beige Book ■ November 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Economic conditions in the District have improved at a modest pace since our previous report. Labor market conditions
remain tight as most firms reported raising starting wages and salaries as a way to attract new workers. Reports on
consumer spending were somewhat weak, and reports from other nonfinancial service firms were mixed. Manufacturing
contacts reported slight growth, and banking conditions improved moderately. The outlook among District firms sur-
veyed in mid-November was generally optimistic. On net, 49 percent of contacts expect District economic conditions in
2018 to be better or somewhat better than 2017. This outlook was slightly weaker than the outlook from the mid-August
survey, but it is a modest improvement from the outlook one year ago.
Employment and Wages but the pace of growth slowed during the fourth quarter.
Employment has increased modestly since the previous On net, 15 percent of business contacts reported that
report. Of the business contacts surveyed in early No- prices charged to customers were higher than a year
vember, on net, one-third of contacts reported that em- ago. Conversely, growth in non-labor costs was moder-
ployment was higher or slightly higher than a year ago. ate. On net, 45 percent of contacts reported that costs
Of those hiring, over half expect to increase their firm’s were higher than a year ago.
employment over the next year, while 40 percent expect Multiple contacts in Louisville reported rising construction
to hire only to replace departing workers. Contacts cited costs, and a Memphis contact noted a significant in-
growth of sales, a need for skills not possessed by their crease in lumber prices. In the energy sector, coal prices
current staff, and overworked staff as the top factors for increased moderately.
hiring. Contacts cited an inability to find workers with the
required skills as a key factor restraining hiring plans, Consumer Spending
behind only a desire to keep operating costs low. Reports from general retailers, auto dealers, and hotel- iers indicate consumer spending has slightly declined
Contacts have reported moderate wage growth since the since our previous report. Although October real sales
previous report, as tightness in the labor market has tax collections increased in Kentucky and Tennessee,
resulted in upward pressure on wages. On net, 61 per- they decreased in Missouri and Arkansas. Multiple auto
cent of contacts reported wages were higher or slightly dealers reported a decline in sales, which have failed to
higher than a year ago, and 68 percent reported increas- meet their expectations during 2017. Memphis and Lou-
es in labor costs. Nearly 80 percent of those hiring re- isville dealers noted a shift in demand away from used
ported raising starting wages or salaries to attract new vehicles. Reports from hospitality contacts were mixed.
hires, while about two-thirds reported raising wages or
salaries to retain existing employees. Manufacturing Manufacturing activity has increased slightly since our
Prices previous report, although the pace of growth has contin-
Price pressures have continued to increase modestly. ued to slow. In a recent survey, contacts reported that
Overall, prices charged to consumers increased slightly, production and capacity utilization were unchanged in H-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
the fourth quarter relative to one year ago, while a slight Commercial real estate activity has improved modestly
majority on net reported an increase in new orders. The since the previous report. Contacts reported relatively
results are down from this time last year, when over half strong demand for most property types, particularly office
of contacts on net reported increases in production and and industrial. These trends are expected to continue
capacity utilization and over one-fourth reported increas- into the first quarter of 2018.
es in new orders. Contacts are also less optimistic about Commercial construction activity remained flat. Several
the next quarter, with only around 10 percent on net Memphis contractors continued to report optimism re-
expecting increases in production, capacity utilization, garding future projects. New multifamily construction
and new orders, compared with over three-fourths ex- continued, and contacts indicated that the level of activity
pecting increases in all three areas at this time last year. has been the same relative to a year ago. New hotel
Despite the weaker outlook, several companies reported development also continued in the major MSAs. Similar
new capital expenditure and facility expansion plans, to residential markets, contacts reported labor shortages
including firms that manufacture transportation equip- negatively impacting activity.
ment and food products. In addition, some contacts
reported supply disruptions as a result of hurricanes, and Banking and Finance
other contacts expressed concern about a slowdown in Banking conditions have improved at a moderate pace
the auto industry. since the previous report. Banking contacts reported overall loan demand increased moderately relative to
Nonfinancial Services last year; however, the pace of loan growth continues to
Conditions in the service sector weakened from the steadily slow. Demand for auto loans declined for a
previous period, but remain positive on net. Reports of second straight quarter, though bankers anticipate that
fourth-quarter sales were mixed. About one-third of auto lending standards could loosen modestly next quar-
contacts reported higher dollar sales in the current quar- ter. Mortgage demand expanded at the fastest rate
ter than this time last year; however, one-third reported among major loan categories, while demand for busi-
lower dollar sales. Despite mixed sales reports, about ness lending was unchanged relative to year-ago levels.
two-thirds of transportation and service contacts reported After trending up the past few quarters, delinquencies
that sales met or exceeded expectations. Over half of declined moderately across all loan types. District banks
contacts expect sales to be higher in the next quarter are expanding the geographic market areas they serve
than they were last year. Firms that provide information as competitive pressures from other lenders continue to
technology services reported plans to expand facilities increase.
and hire employees. Reports from the healthcare sector
indicate modest growth since the previous period. Agriculture and Natural Resources
Healthcare contacts report that heightened uncertainty Agriculture conditions have improved moderately since
surrounding policy decisions over the past year has the previous reporting period, although farmers continue
become an operating norm, and some providers are to struggle with low crop prices. Expected yields for corn,
moving forward with small capital expansions. cotton, rice, and soybeans were all higher in mid- November than they were in mid-October. The mid-
Real Estate and Construction November expectations were also higher than realized
Residential real estate activity has remained unchanged levels in 2016. Expected corn yields saw the largest
since the previous report. Seasonally adjusted home improvement, with November expectations 3 percent
sales for September were flat relative to the previous above October expectations. Contacts concurred with
month across the District’s four largest MSAs. Local the projections for all four crops, noting that there will be
contacts continued to report that shortages in inventory record yields in a lot of areas.
have hindered sales; on net, about one-quarter of con-
tacts reported that sales have fallen short of expecta- Natural resource extraction conditions declined slightly
tions halfway through the fourth quarter. from September to October, with seasonally adjusted production declining a half a percent. October production
Residential construction activity improved modestly. was also down 3 percent from a year ago. ■
September permit activity increased moderately relative
to the prior month. However, few contacts indicated that
construction activity has increased compared with a year
ago. Local contacts continued to report that a shortage
of labor is preventing homebuilders from meeting For more information about District economic conditions, visit:
demand. www.research.stlouisfed.org/regecon/ H-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis The Beige Book ■ November 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
The Ninth District economy grew modestly overall since the last report. Employment grew modestly, with solid hiring
demand dampened by tight labor. Wage and price pressures were both moderate. The District economy showed vary-
ing growth in consumer spending, services, residential construction, commercial and residential real estate, manufactur-
ing, energy, and mining. But commercial construction dipped slightly, and agriculture remained weak.
Employment and Wages Wages rose moderately overall since the last report,
Employment grew modestly since the last report. Hiring though accounts varied. A Minneapolis-St. Paul staffing
demand remained solid overall. Two employers in contact said his firm was seeing “a ton of wage pressure
western Wisconsin announced immediate hiring of 100 this year,” with increases of 5 percent to 7 percent. A
workers. A regional health system with facilities in small ad hoc survey of Minnesota firms found that wages
multiple District states noted that it had 1,100 regular were expected to rise 2 percent to 3 percent in the
openings. October online job openings in North Dakota coming year. A Montana contact said employers “across
were flat compared with a year earlier, but that was a the board” were raising wages to attract employees. A
notable improvement compared with the previous six North Dakota workforce source said wages there were
months. Two separate surveys showed that hiring “trickling up.” A rural Wisconsin banker noted that tight
sentiment in South Dakota turned modestly positive in labor was pushing up starting wages, but longer-term
October after months of negative sentiment, and employees were seeing smaller increases similar to
sentiment in Minnesota and North Dakota remained previous years. A northern Minnesota firm said it was
positive. Labor markets remained tight. District initial freezing wages after a poor quarter.
unemployment claims in October were 17 percent lower
than a year earlier. A southern Minnesota manufacturer Prices
had 100 openings and could open two more lines of Price pressures were moderate since the last report.
production “but can’t find workers,” according to a local Building materials prices have increased steeply in
contact. Figures from Montana Jobs Services showed recent months, according to several industry sources, in
that active job seekers there were roughly one-third part due to the impact of post-hurricane rebuilding. Retail
lower in October than a year earlier. A Minnesota staffing fuel prices in District states as of mid-November were
contact said current hiring demand was 5 percent higher slightly higher than the previous reporting period. A
than last year, but turnover remained high, and “we recent forecast of home heating costs for the coming
continue to see fewer candidates.” However, there were winter projected natural gas prices to increase 2 percent
notable signs of softness in some regional markets. In over last year, while heating oil costs were expected to
Minnesota, a printing plant, a papermaker, and a food rise 10 percent. Prices received by farmers for corn,
processor all announced plant closures, including layoffs wheat, hay, milk, hogs, chickens, and eggs increased in
of 335, 150, and 200, respectively. September compared with a year earlier; prices for I-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis
soybeans, cattle, and turkeys decreased. Minneapolis-St. Paul.
Consumer Spending and Tourism Commercial real estate grew modestly since the last
Consumer spending showed modest growth since the report. In Minneapolis-St. Paul, industrial leasing activity
last report. Despite the closure of four large discount/ has been strong, pushing vacancy rates below 7
department stores across the District, the retail sector in percent. Industrial projects planned or under construction
many District metros saw expansion and was were also described as healthy, though below last year’s
experiencing low vacancy rates. Year-over-year gross levels. Office vacancy rates, on the other hand, have
sales in South Dakota in September and October turned seen an uptick this year, and lease concessions have
positive after six consecutive months of decline. A started to appear. Demand for retail space continued,
November survey found that Minnesota shoppers with vacancy rates remaining steady and asking rents
expected their holiday spending to increase by 3.5 rising modestly. Residential real estate was modestly
percent over last year. higher. October home sales grew compared with a year earlier in Bozeman and Missoula (Mont.) and in western
Hunting dominates fall tourism in much of the District, and northern Wisconsin. Sales also grew slightly in
and reports varied. South Dakota saw a decline in Minnesota. But decreased sales were seen in Great
pheasant hunters, thanks largely to low pheasant Falls and Helena (Mont.) and Sioux Falls, S.D.
numbers stemming from severe drought in the state.
Deer licenses in North Dakota were up slightly from last Manufacturing
year, but down about 2 percent in Minnesota. Hunters in District manufacturing activity increased moderately
northwestern and south-central parts of Montana were since the last report. An ad hoc survey of Minneapolis-
also down from last year, due in part to wildfires. A St. Paul inventory managers indicated that recent
survey in Montana found that one-quarter of Montana business activity had increased relative to the same
tourism businesses, and 13 percent of outfitters and period a year ago and that sales for the remainder of the
guides, had to cancel an event due to this year’s year were expected to accelerate. An index of
wildfires. manufacturing conditions indicated increased activity in October compared with a month earlier in Minnesota and
Services the Dakotas. A radiator plant in Minnesota and a
Activity in the professional services industry increased furniture producer in Wisconsin announced expansions.
moderately since the last report. An accounting firm with In contrast, a paper producer shut down a production
business across the District reported steady growth line at a mill in Minnesota.
recently. A contact in the financial services industry
noted an increase in start-up activity, particularly among Agriculture, Energy and Natural Resources
information technology and biotech firms. However, a District agricultural conditions remained weak overall, as
web marketing company was cutting staff amid good harvests were not expected to offset low prices.
restructuring. Early reports from harvests indicated solid production in District states, though corn and soybean production in
Construction and Real Estate the Dakotas was expected to decrease from last year.
Commercial construction was down slightly since the last Respondents to the Minneapolis Fed’s third-quarter
report. A slow September was followed by a flat October (October) survey of agricultural credit conditions
across most of the District, according to industry figures indicated that farm income and capital spending
on construction spending. Commercial permitting activity decreased relative to a year earlier, with further declines
in October was mixed among District metros, and a expected for the remainder of the year. Activity in the
count of new and active construction projects also energy and mining sectors increased moderately since
declined over the most recent six-week period (ending in the last report. District oil and gas exploration as of mid-
early November) compared with a year earlier. The November was up slightly from a month earlier, though
construction outlook received a boost in several District North Dakota recently approved or renewed a
states from strong referendum results for school substantial number of drilling permits. September
improvements, including $1.3 billion in capital bonding in shipments of iron ore on the Great Lakes increased 23
Minnesota. Residential construction was up moderately. percent from a year earlier. ■
Permitted single-family units in October rose in a number
of metros, while multifamily units saw a notable uptick in I-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City The Beige Book ■ November 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Economic activity in the Tenth District increased moderately in October and early November, and most sectors expected
continued moderate growth in future months. Transportation and manufacturing contacts reported a strong increase in
activity, and professional, high-tech, and wholesale trade activity expanded at a moderate pace. District real estate
activity continued to increase at a slight pace, while consumer spending contacts indicated growth was unchanged since
the previous survey period. District energy activity continued to grow modestly and bankers reported steady overall loan
demand, stable deposit levels, and unchanged loan quality. Agricultural conditions weakened but at a slower pace, with
subdued farm income and lower farmland values in most areas. Employment and employee hours increased in most
sectors, and contacts reported modest wage growth with further moderate increases expected. Input and selling prices
were up moderately over the previous survey period in most sectors.
Employment and Wages reported moderately higher input and selling prices, with
Respondents in the wholesale trade, professional ser- both expected to rise strongly moving forward. Restau-
vices, real estate, and manufacturing sectors reported an rant input prices increased moderately, while selling
increase in employment, while respondents in the auto prices edged up. Transportation contacts reported mod-
industry noted a slight decline. A significant majority of erate growth in both input and selling prices and antici-
respondents in the District expected either increasing or pated strong increases in the coming months. Construc-
unchanged employment levels in the next twelve tion prices continued to increase at a moderate pace
months, due primarily to higher expectations of sales with modest increases expected in the next few months.
growth. Contacts in the manufacturing sector and most Manufacturers reported a slight increase in prices for
of the services sector with the exception of the auto finished goods, while raw material costs continued to
industry reported rising employee hours. Respondents edge higher. Manufacturers anticipated moderate growth
noted a shortage of commercial drivers, skilled techni- in both finished goods and raw materials prices over the
cians, and service workers. The primary factors cited as next few months.
restraining hiring plans were a desire to keep operating Consumer Spending
costs low followed by the lack of available qualified Consumer spending activity was mostly flat in October
workers. and early November, while expectations for future
Contacts in most sectors reported modest wage growth growth increased at a moderate pace. Retail sales in-
and expectations were for moderate wage growth in the creased moderately over the previous survey period, and
coming months. Additionally, the majority of District remained above year-ago levels. Several retailers noted
contacts noted rising wages for both new and existing an increase in sales for lower priced and discounted
employees. items, while higher-priced products sold poorly. Contacts anticipated sales to rise considerably in the next few
Prices months, and inventory levels were expected to increase
Overall, input prices were up moderately compared to moderately. Auto sales continued to fall moderately and
the prior survey period, and selling prices also increased were well below year-ago levels. Dealer contacts antici-
at a moderate pace. Respondents in the retail sector pated a moderate pickup in sales for the months ahead. J-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City
Auto inventories were expected to remain stable heading stable demand for commercial and industrial, commer-
forward. Restaurant sales increased slightly and were cial real estate, residential real estate, agricultural and
modestly above year-ago levels. Contacts expected a consumer installment loans. Most bankers indicated loan
mild decline in activity heading forward. District tourism quality was unchanged compared to a year ago. In addi-
activity was slightly lower than the previous survey and tion, most respondents expected loan quality to remain
below year-ago levels. Tourism contacts expected activi- essentially the same over the next six months. Credit
ty to increase moderately heading into the winter standards remained largely unchanged in all major loan
months. categories. Finally, results for the trends in deposits were varied with no discernible majority.
Manufacturing and Other Business Activity
Manufacturing activity expanded at a strong pace in Energy
October and early November, and the majority of other Tenth District energy activity continued to grow modestly
business contacts reported moderate to strong sales and expectations for future activity were positive. The
increases. Manufacturers reported sustained growth in number of active oil and gas rigs moderated somewhat,
production, particularly for metals, plastics, and electron- particularly oil rigs in Oklahoma. Still, oil and gas produc-
ics products. Shipments, new orders, and order backlog tion was expected to increase since most drilling activity
grew at a solid pace, and activity was higher than a year focused on development rather than exploration. Activity
ago. Manufacturers’ capital spending plans rose moder- picked up modestly in New Mexico’s San Juan Basin
ately, and firms’ expectations for future activity remained and Colorado’s Denver-Julesburg Basin. Activity in Okla-
favorable. homa’s Arkoma basin, a predominately natural gas play, also expanded modestly since the last survey period.
Outside of manufacturing, transportation firms reported Respondents continued to focus on operating within
strong sales increases, while professional, high-tech, cash flows, but said private equity capital remained
and wholesale trade contacts indicated more moderate readily available.
growth. All firms expected a strong improvement in sales
in the next six months. Professional, high-tech, and Agriculture
wholesale trade firms reported modest growth in capital The District farm economy and credit conditions contin-
spending plans, while transportation firms anticipated a ued to weaken since the previous reporting period, but
moderate decrease in capital expenditures heading the pace of the declines slowed. Farm income remained
forward. weak in November, which continued to reduce working capital and increase demand for financing. Farm loan
Real Estate and Construction repayment rates also generally declined, but at a more
District real estate activity continued to expand at a slight moderate pace than in the previous reporting period.
pace in October and early November. Residential home District contacts reported that stronger livestock markets
sales remained steady since the previous survey period, and expectations of a strong fall harvest kept loan repay-
but expectations for home sales were modestly negative ment rates from declining more sharply. Farmland values
in the coming months. Sales of low- and medium-priced also moderated further in most areas, but remained
homes continued to outpace sales of higher-priced steady in areas where crop production was particularly
homes. Residential home prices rose modestly, while high. District contacts noted that credit monitoring has
inventories fell further. Residential construction activity increased slightly and interest rates on farm loans have
edged up, as construction supply sales increased mod- edged higher alongside the elevated risk in the sector.
estly while new home starts were flat and traffic of poten- However, most contacts expected only minimal sales of
tial buyers fell moderately. Commercial real estate activi- farm assets to improve cash flow and working capital. ■
ty continued to expand at a modest pace as absorption,
completions, and sales rose, while vacancy rates de-
clined. Activity in the commercial real estate sector was
moderately above year-ago levels, and expectations
were positive moving forward.
Banking
Bankers reported steady overall loan demand for the For more information about District economic conditions visit:
month of October. A majority of respondents indicated a www.KansasCityFed.org/Research/RegionalEconomy J-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas The Beige Book ■ November 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
The Eleventh District economy continued to expand at a moderate pace over the past six weeks. Manufacturing output
strengthened, and activity in nonfinancial services increased. Retail sales growth continued but at a slower pace as the
post-hurricane auto sales rush abated somewhat. Home sales rose during the reporting period. Loan demand was flat,
and energy activity was largely unchanged. Crop conditions remained mostly favorable. Employment, wages and prices
continued to increase, and widespread reports of a tight labor market persisted. Outlooks remained positive overall, and
generally a bit more optimistic than in the prior reporting period.
Employment and Wages tives on higher-end houses due to push back from buy-
Overall employment growth remained solid, and upward ers at that price point. Oil and diesel prices rose over the
wage pressure persisted at slightly elevated levels. reporting period, while gasoline prices exhibited mixed
Hiring picked up in the service sector, continued at about movements—falling from post-hurricane highs then
the same robust pace in manufacturing, and abated rebounding in early November.
slightly in the energy sector. Labor market tightness Manufacturing
carried on in most industries. Worker shortages were There was further pickup in the robust expansion in the
reported throughout the oil and gas supply chain and in manufacturing sector. A rebound in output growth for
construction, with contacts saying the scarcity of labor nondurable goods was seen in October, driven largely by
was driving up wages for certain types of workers. Simi- chemical and food production. Strength continued in
lar reports came from manufacturing (particularly high- durable goods manufacturing, led by increases in
tech), airlines, and health care. Some banks reported transportation equipment production. Output growth
that labor was becoming a bigger issue than regulatory among firms closely tied to energy was weaker than
compliance. Looking ahead, roughly two-thirds of con- overall manufacturing in October. While refinery and
tacts expect to increase employment over the next chemical plants were largely back to normal operating
twelve months, largely citing an expectation of high sales rates after Hurricane Harvey, contacts said the storm
growth as the impetus. Several firms said that the inabil- caused a setback of one to two quarters of construction
ity to find workers with the required skills was the main time for new facilities along the Gulf Coast. Refining
restraint for hiring plans. margins were healthy, and sentiment was bullish through
Prices next year. For Texas manufacturing overall, growth in
Pressure on selling prices remained elevated over the new orders picked up and outlooks remained highly
past six weeks. A pickup in price growth was noted positive.
among nonfinancial services, retail and construction
firms. However, an airline noted falling ticket prices due
to increased competition. New home prices were mostly
flat, with some builders offering discounts and/or incen- K-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
Retail Sales The office market remained mostly weak in Houston,
Retail sales continued to expand, albeit at a slower pace despite a decline in sublease inventory and a pickup in
than in the prior reporting period. Auto sales decreased investment sales activity. Office demand was solid in
from the initial post-hurricane surge but remained high. A Dallas, and industrial market activity was reported to be
clothing retailer noted that Houston-area stores benefited stable in both metros.
from the Astros playoff and World Series excitement, as Financial Services
well as some additional spending by flood victims. Along Demand for loans was flat over the past six weeks.
the border, several contacts noted ongoing concerns According to contacts, loan volumes increased, but the
regarding a decline in demand for American goods by pace of growth continued its downward trend over the
Mexican customers. Outlooks among retailers in general past three reporting periods. The slowdown in loan vol-
remained quite positive. ume growth was seen in commercial and residential real
Nonfinancial Services estate, while commercial and industrial loan growth
Demand for nonfinancial services continued to expand edged up. Contacts again reported a slight decline in
moderately over the past six weeks. There were scat- consumer loan volumes. Core deposit volumes in-
tered reports of lingering effects from Hurricane Harvey, creased, as did interest rates paid on them. Financial
but for the most part business had returned to normal. industry contacts noted improvement in general business
Transportation services were a key driver of faster activity over the past six weeks, and also expressed
growth this period. Rail cargo volumes were up, particu- higher levels of optimism for the six-months-ahead
larly for frac sand and building products. Volumes for air horizon.
cargo as well as containers and trailers also rose. Staff-
ing services firms noted increased demand and broad- Energy
based strength. In North Texas, logistics, manufacturing, Energy activity was largely unchanged from six weeks
health care, call centers, and IT exhibited particularly ago, despite an increase in oil prices. Drilling activity
strong demand for placements. Revenues in the leisure declined as the Texas rig count fell, but well completion
and hospitality sector rebounded in October after declin- and production activities increased. Demand for oilfield
ing in the wake of Hurricane Harvey in September, but services in the Permian Basin remained healthy, and
there were some businesses still recovering. Overall, declining activity outside the Permian Basin may stabi-
outlooks were optimistic and improved from six weeks lize with the stronger oil prices, according to contacts.
ago, although concerns remained. Some contacts noted Outlooks for 2018 remained conservative, but were more
that uncertainty surrounding federal tax reform, health optimistic than the last reporting period.
care, and government regulation was making it difficult to Agriculture
plan for 2018. Crop harvesting continued at a normal pace, with gener-
Construction and Real Estate ally favorable crop conditions. An estimate from Texas
Home sales rose during the reporting period, although A&M University puts agricultural losses from Hurricane
the pace of growth varied across regions. Contacts in Harvey at $200 million, which is not as high as expected
Houston generally noted a rebound in sales activity and far less than what was seen from Hurricane Ike in
following Hurricane Harvey, but there were some reports 2008 and Hurricane Irma. Texas corn and sorghum
of weakness in areas affected by flooding. Respondents production is expected to be down in 2017 largely be-
in Austin and Dallas-Fort Worth (DFW) reported slowing cause of fewer acres planted, while cotton production is
in the pace of sales growth, which some contacts in expected to be up more than 10 percent this year, ac- cording to the USDA. There was still financial stress in
DFW attributed to buyers concerned about changes to the farming sector, with producers primarily concerned
immigration policy. about low crop prices across the board. On the livestock
The apartment market was slowly returning to a normal side, pasture conditions were fair to good and cattle
pace of growth following a few years of above-average prices increased sharply over the last six weeks largely
expansion, according to contacts. While overall condi- in response to strong domestic demand and booming
tions have improved in Houston’s apartment market exports. ■
following Hurricane Harvey, one contact said rent con-
cessions have slowly started to creep back in some
areas where there is a plethora of new supply. K-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco The Beige Book ■ November 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Economic activity in the Twelfth District continued to expand at a moderate pace during the reporting period of October
through mid-November. Overall price inflation was flat. Conditions in the labor market tightened further, and upward
wage pressures intensified. Sales of retail goods grew moderately, and growth in the consumer and business services
sectors remained strong. Conditions in the manufacturing sector remained solid, and activity in the agriculture sector
was flat. Contacts reported that residential real estate market activity remained robust and conditions in the commercial
real estate sector were strong. Lending activity grew at a moderate pace.
Employment and Wages tition in the retail pharmaceutical industry slowed overall
Conditions in the labor market tightened further, and drug price growth, and contacts continued to report
upward wage pressures intensified. Shortages of skilled modest deflation in generic drug prices. Continued
IT professionals in the technology, financial services, strong production slowed price growth for many agricul-
and manufacturing industries further intensified upward tural commodities. Prices of mobile devices continued to
wage pressures. Wages in the construction industry decline on a 12-month basis.
climbed higher as post-hurricane rebuilding efforts in the Retail Trade and Services
Southeast worsened existing labor shortages. Contacts Growth in retail sales remained moderate over the re-
in the Mountain West observed very low unemployment porting period. Sales of beverage products were strong,
levels in nearly every industry. Producers of manufac- and contacts noted a shift in consumer preference to-
tured pharmaceuticals reported intensified competition wards smaller noncarbonated beverages. While e-
for new hires, increasing wage pressures notably. Major commerce sales growth in the apparel industry contin-
film releases during the holiday season and preparation ued to outpace sales declines at brick-and-mortar retail-
for the upcoming awards season are expected to boost ers, contacts noted that overall sales remain weak, given
seasonal employment in the entertainment and related the favorable overall economic conditions.
industries. Demand for labor in the commercial airline
industry declined somewhat as manufacturers reported a On balance, holiday sales are expected to increase
slowdown in new orders. modestly relative to last year’s holiday season due in part to an extra shopping day between Thanksgiving and
Prices Christmas. However, some industry surveys suggested
Overall, price inflation was flat over the reporting period. there will be less in-store foot traffic on Black Friday this
Prices for some building materials jumped as reconstruc- year as consumers have become accustomed to year-
tion efforts in the Southeast pushed up demand sharply. round discounting. Holiday sales of technology products
Airfare inflation picked up modestly due to a jump in fuel are expected to increase relative to last year. Automobile
prices. Prices for transportation services are expected to sales during the holiday season are expected to be solid,
increase over the holiday season as a large transporta- but down from last year’s strong pace. Elevated invento-
tion company is expected to institute a holiday sur- ries and soft demand are expected to fuel strong dis-
charge. Except for all but a small number of niche prod- counting at apparel retailers during the holiday sales
ucts, price growth for apparel was flat. Increased compe- season. L-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco
Activity in the consumer and business services sector Real Estate and Construction
continued to grow at a strong pace. Demand for air travel Activity in real estate markets picked up to a robust
reached its highest level in a decade, and revenue pace. Construction activity in the residential market
growth in the industry remained strong. Sales of technol- remained robust and was slowed only by shortages of
ogy services picked up as demand for cloud computing land and labor. Low inventory levels and strong demand
and security software remained robust, and infrastruc- pushed up house prices and rents. Contacts reported
ture investment in data centers ramped up further. Wild- that affordability remained a concern as price increases
fires in Northern California temporarily reduced shipping continued to outpace wage growth in much of the Dis-
volumes in the region. However, shipping volumes are trict. Commercial construction activity picked up to a
expected to increase to record levels during the holiday strong pace. Contacts in Seattle noted continued strong
season, and contacts reported increased investment in demand for commercial office space, driven mainly by
automated warehouse technology to meet peak demand. demand from large technology companies. Permits for
After declines in the early fall, same-store sales in the commercial storage space are expected to surge in
restaurant industry have picked up modestly. Eastern Washington and Idaho. Over the next 10 years, contacts expect that a significant number of large retail
Manufacturing spaces will be repurposed for storage.
Conditions in the manufacturing sector remained solid.
Demand for semiconductors continued to be strong. Financial Institutions
Production of steel and manufactured metals picked up Lending activity grew at a moderate pace over the re-
further, and rebuilding efforts in the Southeast are ex- porting period. Loan demand remained moderate. De-
pected to buoy normally soft year-end sales. However, mand for deposits outpaced growth, pushing up deposit
capacity utilization rates in the steel sector remained rates. Loan underwriting standards softened slightly.
below long-run levels. Deliveries of commercial aircraft Delinquencies remained low, but contacts in some rural
reached peak levels, but new orders slowed somewhat. areas noted an uptick in nonperforming loans. Contacts
Production of manufactured pharmaceuticals slowed reported that regulatory compliance continued to push
somewhat from its pace over the first half of the year. up overall costs, particularly for community banks. ■
Agriculture and Resource-Related Industries
On balance, activity in the agriculture sector was flat.
Exports of some processed manufactured milk products
were strong. Excess supply of wheat put downward
pressure on prices and hampered profitability of growers
in Eastern Washington. Harvest yields of potatoes in
Idaho were slightly below long-run averages. Contacts
emphasized that energy producers focused capital in-
vestments on improving existing infrastructure. L-2



