 For use at 2:00 p.m., E.D.T. Wednesday July 29, 2009
Summary of Commentary on ____________________ Current Economic Conditions By Federal Reserve District July 2009

SUMMARY OF COMMENTARY ON CURRENT ECONOMIC CONDITIONS BY FEDERAL RESERVE DISTRICTS JULY 2009

 TABLE OF CONTENTS
SUMMARY ……………………………………………………………….….…... i
First District – Boston …………………………………………………….……..I-1
Second District – New York …………………………………………….…….. II-1
Third District – Philadelphia …………………………………………………..III-1
Fourth District – Cleveland ……………………..…………………….…….... IV-1
Fifth District – Richmond ………………………………………………….….. V-1
Sixth District – Atlanta …………………………………………………….…. VI-1
Seventh District – Chicago ……………………………………………….…...VII-1
Eighth District – St. Louis …………..…………………………………..……VIII-1
Ninth District – Minneapolis …………….…………………………………… IX-1
Tenth District – Kansas City …………….…………………………………….. X-1
Eleventh District – Dallas ……………….………..…………………..………. XI-1
Twelfth District – San Francisco ..……….……………….………………….. XII-1

 i SUMMARY 1 Reports from the 12 Federal Reserve Districts suggest that economic activity continued to be
weak going into the summer, but most Districts indicated that the pace of decline has moderated since the
last report or that activity has begun to stabilize, albeit at a low level. Five Districts used the words
“slow”, “subdued”, or “weak” to describe activity levels; Chicago and St. Louis reported that the pace of
decline appeared to be moderating; and New York, Cleveland, Kansas City, and San Francisco pointed to
signs of stabilization. Minneapolis said the District economy had contracted since the last report. Most Districts reported sluggish retail activity. Cleveland, Richmond, and Minneapolis noted
further declines in sales, although results were somewhat mixed or positive according to retailers in the
Boston, Philadelphia, St. Louis, Kansas City, and San Francisco Districts. Manufacturing activity showed
some improvement in the Richmond, Chicago, and Kansas City Districts; while St. Louis and Dallas
reported some moderation of declines; Philadelphia and Minneapolis saw activity decrease; and most
other Districts indicated that manufacturing activity continued at low levels. Boston, Richmond, St.
Louis, Minneapolis, and San Francisco reported contractions in services industries. Banking sectors in
the New York, Cleveland, Richmond, St. Louis, Kansas City, and San Francisco Districts experienced
weaker demand for some categories of loans. Residential real estate markets stayed soft in most Districts,
although many noted some signs of improvement. By contrast, commercial real estate markets weakened
further in recent months in two-thirds of the Districts and remained slow in the others. Districts reported varied—but generally modest—price changes across sectors and products, with
competitive pressures damping increases; however, Boston, Cleveland, Chicago, Minneapolis, and Dallas
noted that some metals prices have increased in recent months. Most Districts indicated that labor
markets were extremely soft, with minimal wage pressures, and cited the use of various methods of
reducing compensation in addition to, or instead of, freezing or cutting wages.
1 Prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston and based on information collected on or before July 20, 2009.
This document summarizes comments received from business and other contacts outside the Federal Reserve and is
not a commentary on the views of Federal Reserve officials.

 ii
Consumer Spending and Tourism Consumer spending in the early summer remained below previous-year levels in most Districts,
as households continued to be price conscious. Boston, Kansas City, and San Francisco experienced
either modest sales increases or less negative sales results than in recent reporting periods. Philadelphia,
Atlanta, St. Louis, New York, and Dallas cited flat or mixed sales, while sales in the remaining Districts
remained soft. Several Districts noted that consumers focused on purchasing less expensive necessities,
while sales of big ticket items languished. Retailers in Boston, Philadelphia, and Dallas characterized
their outlook as cautious. Auto sales were mixed across the country. Chicago, Minneapolis, and Kansas City saw modest
increases in car sales, while New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, and Atlanta continued to experience
subdued sales. The exception was sales of used vehicles, which continued to be strong or were
strengthening, according to Philadelphia, Cleveland, Atlanta, Kansas City, and San Francisco. Travel and tourism declined in the majority of Districts. The San Francisco District observed a
sharp drop in luxury and business travel, while tourism activity in New York City was weak but stable
since the last Beige Book report. Tourism contacts along the Atlantic coast reported that with the
exception of July 4th holiday bookings, business was generally weaker than a year ago. Hotel room rates
have declined in several Districts.
Nonfinancial Services District reports regarding nonfinancial services industries were largely negative, although they
included a few bright spots. The Minneapolis, St. Louis, and Dallas Districts indicated that demand for
professional services such as business support, architecture, and legal services continued to decline or
remained soft. By contrast, reports from the healthcare sector were largely positive, with the San
Francisco, Minneapolis, and Richmond Districts citing steady to increased demand for medical services,
and the Atlanta, Cleveland, Chicago, and Dallas Districts reporting hiring activity in health care.
Technology-related firms in the Kansas City District also reported heightened activity, especially in the

 iii
clean technology and defense-driven aerospace markets. Richmond and Minneapolis noted increased
demand for information technology workers, and Atlanta saw hiring activity in the defense and aerospace
industry. Staffing industry contacts in numerous Districts suggested a higher demand for temporary or
part-time workers over permanent hires, and Atlanta noted that employers were taking advantage of a
higher supply of skilled labor to improve the quality of their workforces. Nearly all Districts reporting on transportation services observed continued weakness. Freight
transport respondents from the Atlanta, Dallas, and Cleveland Districts noted that cargo volumes remain
below year-earlier levels. While Cleveland contacts reported that competitive shipping rates are being
maintained, trucking contacts from the Atlanta District noted that an oversupply of trucks relative to
demand has exerted downward pressure on rates. A few Districts also reported reduced airline traffic,
especially amongst business travelers.
Manufacturing Reports on the manufacturing sector remained subdued but were slightly more positive than in the
previous Beige Book. Many Districts characterized manufacturing activity as remaining depressed but
with selected signs of modest improvement. Philadelphia, Minneapolis, Atlanta, and St. Louis reported
decreased manufacturing activity; however, the latter two Districts noted that the overall rate of decline
abated in the latest reporting period. Richmond and Kansas City reported rising manufacturing activity,
albeit chiefly in nondurables industries. Districts attributed some of the recent increases in production to
replenishment of finished-goods or customer inventories. Chicago indicated that the quick resolutions of the Chrysler and GM bankruptcies have boosted
business confidence, and that automakers were scheduling a pickup in production for July. However,
ongoing shutdowns of domestic auto plants have led to precariously low business volumes for parts
suppliers, according to Chicago and St. Louis. Steel production remained depressed but has leveled off or
increased somewhat, according to Cleveland, Chicago, and St. Louis. Similarly, Dallas observed that
refineries increased their capacity utilization slightly over the past six weeks, but that overall industry

 iv
conditions remain weak because of low demand for fuels. Various District reports noted cancellations of
orders for commercial aircraft and continued weak demand for most types of equipment and machinery.
Among the positive developments in manufacturing, several Districts mentioned pickups in technology
sectors, or cited strong or rising sales of military products or pharmaceuticals. Comments on the near-term outlook varied across Districts, but on the whole they appear
consistent with a forecast of modest and uneven recovery in manufacturing output beginning during
roughly the coming six to twelve months. New York, Philadelphia, and Atlanta indicated that
manufacturers have a generally positive or improved near-term outlook. Dallas reported that high-tech
manufacturers “are seeing some upside potential in their forecasts instead of just down-side risks,” but
that construction-related manufacturers “expect no improvement in the near term.” Boston indicated that
many respondents expect continued sub-par revenue numbers for the remainder of the year, but “look
forward to slowly improving business in 2010,” while Cleveland and Kansas City reported that
manufacturing contacts expect little or no change in demand through the end of 2009.
Real Estate and Construction Commercial real estate leasing markets were described as either “weak” or “slow” in all 12
Districts, although the severity of the downturn varied somewhat across Districts. While the office
vacancy rate was up and rents were down in the Dallas District, market fundamentals there remained
stronger than the national average. Market conditions in the New York District are significantly worse
than one year ago, on average, but have been relatively stable in recent weeks and some parts of the
District report improving fundamentals. Office vacancy rates continued to climb in the Atlanta, Boston,
Kansas City, Minneapolis, Philadelphia, Richmond, and San Francisco Districts, as well as in Manhattan,
resulting in sizable leasing concessions and/or declines in asking rents. Significant weakness in the retail
leasing sector was reported for the Boston, Minneapolis, and New York Districts, and industrial vacancy
increased in the Atlanta, Dallas, Minneapolis, and St. Louis Districts. Commercial real estate sales
volume remained low, even “non-existent” in some Districts, reportedly due to a combination of tight

 v
credit and weak demand. Construction activity was limited and/or declining in most Districts, although
exceptions were noted for health and institutional construction in the St. Louis District, public sector
construction in the Chicago District, and the reconstruction of the World Trade Center in Manhattan.
Tight credit was cited as an ongoing factor in the dearth of new construction activity. The commercial
real estate outlook was mixed, both within and across Districts. Some contacts expect commercial real
estate markets to improve within two quarters and others predict further market deterioration for the
remainder of 2009 and possibly through late 2010. Residential real estate markets in most Districts remained weak, but many reported signs of
improvement. The Minneapolis and San Francisco Districts cited large increases in home sales compared
with 2008 levels, and other Districts reported rising sales in some submarkets. Of the areas that continued
to experience year-over-year sales declines, all except St Louis—where sales were down steeply— also
reported that the pace of decline was moderating. In general, the low end of the market, especially entry-
level homes, continued to perform relatively well; contacts in the New York, Kansas City, and Dallas
Districts attributed this relative strength, at least in part, to the first-time homebuyer tax credit. Condo
sales were still far below year-before levels according to the Boston and New York reports. In general,
home prices continued to decline in most markets, although a number of Districts saw possible signs of
stabilization. The Boston, Atlanta, and Chicago Districts mentioned that the increasing number of
foreclosure sales was exerting downward pressure on home prices. Residential construction reportedly
remains quite slow, with the Chicago, Cleveland, and Kansas City Districts noting that financing is
difficult.
Agriculture and Natural Resources The farm sector reported better weather in much of the country in June and early July. As a
result, the supply and condition of many crops have improved, and prices have fallen. In the Richmond
and Atlanta Districts, generally favorable weather has facilitated the vegetable, small grain or fruit
harvest-- much of which is in good condition. Similarly, contacts in several Districts including Chicago,

 vi
St. Louis, and Kansas City indicated that the size and condition of the corn, soybean and/or rice crops
have improved and that farmers are now planning to harvest more acres than previously expected; thus,
prices and profits are−and for the short term are expected to remain−down. By contrast, the production
of wheat or barley is expected to fall well below strong 2008 levels in the St. Louis and Minneapolis
Districts. In the Dallas District, where a drought continues, much of the corn, cotton, and other crops
were described as “not worth harvesting,” and producers are collecting insurance. Livestock contacts in the Chicago, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts report that prices for dairy,
hogs, and cattle have fallen by more than operating costs and some ranchers are liquidating herds. In the
Chicago District, livestock operations have reportedly lost their cash cushion and have been unable to get
financing; contacts in Dallas, where the ongoing drought has destroyed forage, also note concerns about
ranchers’ cash flow. With oil prices up to $70 per barrel in the first half of 2009 but recently trending down, oil
production was reportedly flat in June and early July in the Cleveland, Minneapolis, and Kansas City
Districts and up slightly in Dallas and San Francisco. Contacts in Atlanta indicate that the number of rigs
operating in the Gulf of Mexico had fallen by half year over year while in Dallas the number of working
rigs was up slightly. Natural gas prices continue to fall, discouraging drilling in the Kansas City, Dallas,
and San Francisco Districts. Kansas City energy producers report financial strains and are cutting
headcounts selectively, while contacts in Dallas observe much excess capacity and weak demand for
energy services. In response to weak demand from the utilities, coal prices in the Cleveland District have
fallen 50 percent since early 2009, and coal production, jobs and hours are down; capital spending has
fallen to minimum maintenance levels. In Minneapolis, by contrast, new wind projects have been
announced.
Banking and Financial Services In most reporting Districts, overall lending activity was stable or weakened further for most loan
categories. In contrast, Philadelphia reported a slight increase in business, consumer, and residential real
estate lending. As businesses remained pessimistic and reluctant to borrow, demand for commercial and

 vii
industrial loans continued to fall or stay weak in the New York, Richmond, St. Louis, Kansas City,
Dallas, and San Francisco Districts. Consumer loan demand decreased in New York, St. Louis, Kansas
City, and San Francisco, stabilized at a low level in Chicago and Dallas, and was steady to up in
Cleveland. Residential real estate lending decreased in New York, Richmond, and St. Louis. Dallas reported
steady but low outstanding mortgage volumes, while Kansas City noted that the rise in mortgage loans
slowed. Refinancing activity fell dramatically in Richmond, decreased in New York and Cleveland, and
maintained its pace in Dallas. Bankers in the New York District indicated no change in delinquency rates
in all loan categories except residential mortgages, while Cleveland, Atlanta, and San Francisco reported
rising delinquencies on loans linked to real estate. Banks continued to tighten credit standards in the New York, Philadelphia, Richmond, Chicago,
Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts; and some have stepped up the requirements for the
commercial real estate category, in particular, due to concern over declining loan quality. Meanwhile,
Cleveland and Atlanta reported that higher credit standards remained in place, with no change expected in
the near term. Credit quality deteriorated in Philadelphia, Cleveland, Kansas City, and San Francisco,
while loan quality exceeded expectations in Chicago and remained steady in Richmond.
Employment, Wages, and Prices All Districts indicated that labor markets remain slack, with most sectors either reducing jobs or
holding them steady and aggregate employment continuing to decline, on net. However, Boston,
Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, and Minneapolis noted selective hiring, including
attempts by some firms to take advantage of layoffs elsewhere to pick up experienced talent. Richmond,
Chicago, St. Louis, and Dallas cited moderation in the pace of manufacturing employment decline since
the last report, and New York noted some signs of labor market stabilization. But Atlanta reported further
deterioration in labor market conditions and additional job cuts already planned for coming months. The weakness of labor markets has virtually eliminated upward wage pressure, and wages and
compensation are steady or falling in most Districts; however, Boston cited some manufacturing and

 viii
business services firms raising pay selectively, and Minneapolis said wage increases were moderate.
Boston, Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, Dallas, and San Francisco cited a range of methods firms are
using to limit compensation, including cutting or freezing wages or benefit contributions, deferral of
future salary increases, trimming bonuses and travel allowances, reducing hours, temporary shutdowns,
periodic furloughs, and unpaid vacations. Most Districts reported that upward price pressures were minimal. Manufacturers in the Boston,
Philadelphia, Atlanta, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts indicated that most materials costs
were flat or down; however, several Districts mentioned price increases for some metals, petrochemicals,
and building materials. While the Boston, New York, and Kansas City reports say a few firms are
making modest price increases stick, selling prices of most manufacturers and retailers were reportedly
held down by competitive pressures. Services firms have increased discounting and/or cut fees, according
to contacts in Boston, Philadelphia, Atlanta, Dallas, and San Francisco, while Richmond indicated price
increases for services were mild.

 I-1 FIRST DISTRICT – BOSTON Business activity in the First District continues to be slow. Most retail contacts are optimistic that
they are past the bottom, while manufacturers consider business to be bouncing along it, at best. While
activity at consulting and advertising firms seems to be leveling out, commercial real estate has weakened
further, reflecting continuing cuts in office employment, among other factors; residential real estate
markets remain weak. Many respondents continue to reduce headcount and cut benefits, if not pay. Price
changes are varied. Few contacts expect business to pick up before 2010.
Retail Contacted retailers in the First District report mixed sales results for the early summer months,
although the majority of respondents report less negative or more positive year-over-year sales changes
than in recent reports. Family restaurants are said to be an exception, with some deterioration in sales. Retailers continue to manage inventory levels carefully. Capital spending is varied, with some
contacts looking for or taking advantage of expansion opportunities. The majority of contacted retailers
say their headcounts are currently stable, although several mention picking up talent when possible, as
other firms shed workers. Selling prices are mostly stable, but a few retailers report that they are starting
to observe some vendor price increases. Overall, most First District retailers expect sales growth to
remain modest, but many say they are cautiously optimistic about being “past the bottom.”
Manufacturing and Related Services Almost all manufacturing and related services contacts headquartered in the First District report that
business remained weak in the second quarter. Many customers were said to be delaying or even
canceling their orders for equipment and instruments, causing sales of nondefense capital goods to fall at
double-digit rates from year-earlier. A few contacts had rising equipment sales to the military or to parts
of the residential construction market year-over-year. Biopharmaceutical and other selected healthcare
niches were the only additional bright spots mentioned. Respondents indicate that foreign sales varied by
geography but were mostly weak or down, and that currency movements depressed dollar-denominated
revenues. Some contacts detected order or sales upticks for selected products in the second quarter, but
the consensus appears to be that volumes remain low, business is merely “bouncing along the bottom,”
and “no sustainable green shoots” have emerged. Still, a few express relief that the economy is no longer
in a “free fall” and customers are “getting their bearings.” Manufacturers say that materials costs are flat to down compared to a year ago. However, costs for
petroleum derivatives and some steel products are beginning to creep up. With the exception of
biopharmaceuticals, most contacts cite downward pressure on selling prices, but the extent to which this
is translating into actual reductions varies. For example, some companies that increased prices 2 percent
to 3 percent in early 2009 indicate that the higher prices are sticking. Others are giving concessions to
their major customers or are dropping prices for non-specialty products. About one-quarter of the contacted manufacturers and related services providers are holding their
domestic headcounts steady. Most of the remaining firms continue to cut U.S. employment, either
selectively or through layoffs and facility closures. Nonetheless, several respondents mention that they are
actively hiring specialized scientific and engineering personnel. About two-thirds of the firms have raised

 I-2
employee pay this year, usually in the range of 2.5 percent to 3.5 percent. In some cases, however, these
firms have also reduced benefits, frozen pay for selected business units, or announced that they will be
deferring future pay increases. The remaining one-third or so have reduced and/or frozen employee pay,
and/or have enacted temporary shutdowns or unpaid vacations. The majority of responding firms have cut capital spending from last year’s levels, in some cases
dramatically. Some companies are holding expenditures steady because of commitments to restructuring-
or technology-related projects. Relatively few respondents are increasing production capacity. Capital
spending plans generally center on new product development, technology upgrades, or cost reduction.
Some contacts add that while bank credit remains expensive, financial market conditions have improved. Most manufacturers and related services providers appear resigned to slower growth or outright
declines in revenues year-over-year through late 2009. While many respondents look forward to slowly
improving business in 2010, some mention that factors such as structural shifts in the automotive and
financial services industries are likely to delay a full recovery in business until sometime after next year.
Selected Business Services Most First District advertising and consulting contacts report stable or slightly higher demand in
the second quarter of 2009 compared to the first quarter but year-over-year declines from 8 percent to 42
percent. Losses associated with mergers or acquisitions of large clients seen in the beginning of the year
have not been offset with new demand. Demand from the healthcare sector is weakening, chiefly due to
uncertainty about the upcoming healthcare reform. All contacted advertising and consulting firms report price pressure and some are facing
“extremely aggressive” price-cutting strategies from competitors. Some firms have offered 15 percent to
20 percent discounts to core clients. Several respondents have reduced personnel costs, cutting bonuses up
to 50 percent, deferring compensation, or laying off workers. By contrast, a few companies increased
compensation by 2 percent to 3 percent in April 2009. Although wages and salaries will be held stable, a
couple of respondents expect to increase total compensation somewhat in the second half of the year.
Headcounts in most contacted firms were stable in the second quarter, although a few companies laid off
from 10 percent to 25 percent of their workforce. Several contacted firms will reduce employment in the
second half of the year either through layoffs or attrition. Most respondents expect the third quarter to be similar to the second. Demand in 2009 is
projected to decline about 4 percent to 10 percent, and sales should start to increase in 2010. Major risks
to this outlook are healthcare reform, the state of the regional economy, and higher jobless rates.
Commercial Real Estate Sentiment is mostly negative among commercial real estate contacts this period. Throughout the
region, vacancy rates rose again across all commercial property types as sublease supply continues to
expand. In Boston, office vacancy downtown is estimated at roughly 15 percent. While this figure is the
same as that reported last time, the perception is that the number is on the rise. The suburban vacancy rate
is reportedly higher, but estimates range from the upper teens to as high as 24 percent (the figure reported
last time). In downtown Providence, office vacancy stands at roughly 18 percent, and suburban office
vacancy climbed from 19 percent in December to close to 22 percent currently. The industrial market in

 I-3
Rhode Island continued to perform relatively well, with vacancy rates still below 10 percent. Office
vacancy also rose in Hartford. Rents are said to be falling dramatically in Greater Boston. One Boston
contact estimates that asking rents for office space in June 2009 fell 30 percent to 40 percent on a year-
over-year basis. Retail rents in Greater Boston were also “clobbered,” with exact figures not cited. Year-
over-year rent declines have been less steep in Rhode Island, about 6 percent, with all of the declines
occurring in the past six months. In Greater Hartford, rents are reportedly holding steady, but landlords
are offering significant leasing concessions. Across the board, leasing volume remains very low, as
tenants refrain from making commitments beyond a one-month horizon. Sales transaction volume remained very light across all markets, as large gaps persisted between
bid and ask prices and credit remains tight. While underwriting standards are still quite stringent,
commercial real estate financing continues to be available from small and medium-sized banks with
healthy balance sheets, and through the public equity (REIT) market, which has seen increased activity in
recent months. Two contacts noted the rising tide of loan delinquencies and maturities on properties that
are “underwater.” One contact reports that special servicers for securitized commercial loans are
overwhelmed by the volume of problem loans, the result being that de facto loan extensions are being
granted. Across all types of lenders, including commercial banks, loan extensions of one to three years
have become increasingly common, as lenders hope that equity positions will improve over that horizon.
Other lenders are restructuring debt at deep discounts, forestalling steeper losses. Ideally, lenders would
prefer that borrowers put in additional equity, but most are short on cash. Contacts expect fundamentals to continue to deteriorate for at least one more quarter, but
expectations for the timing of the recovery vary from three to twelve months. Consistent with recent
developments, future declines in rents and property values are expected to be greatest for Boston and less
severe in other markets that saw smaller run-ups in prices during the boom. The pace of write-downs by
commercial lenders is expected to accelerate over the next twelve months.
Residential Real Estate Residential real estate markets in New England remained sluggish in May and into June, although
contacts cite some positive signs. Massachusetts and Connecticut saw May home sales drops of 15
percent and 19 percent, respectively, from May 2008. Rhode Island and Maine had more moderate single-
digit year-over-year home sales declines in May. In June, Boston area home sales declined only 5 percent
year-over-year. In New Hampshire, home sales were flat in June compared to the year before. Condo
sales were still far below 2008 levels in Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and Connecticut. The median home price fell about 12 percent year-over-year for most states in the region, but
dropped 25 percent in Rhode Island in May from a year earlier. Another exception was the Greater
Boston area, where the median home price decreased only 2 percent year-over-year in June. Distressed properties make up a much larger share of the homes being sold this year than last,
especially in Rhode Island, with negative effects on median prices. However, inventory continues to
decline in some areas, reducing excess supply. Several contacts complained about the Home Valuation
Code of Conduct, which they argue is leading to under-appraisals by appraisal management companies
lacking sufficient experience in local housing markets.

 II-1 SECOND DISTRICT--NEW YORK The Second District’s economy has shown more signs of stabilizing in recent weeks, though, on
balance, economic activity may still be contracting. The labor market remains exceptionally weak but
with some signs of leveling off. Manufacturing sector contacts report stable conditions and are generally
optimistic about the near-term outlook. Retailers indicate that sales were steady in June and early July
while continuing to run well below 2008 levels. Consumer confidence was mixed but generally steady at
a low level in June. Tourism activity in New York City has also been sluggish but little changed since the
last report, as have been commercial real estate markets. Housing markets have shown some signs of
stabilizing in northern New Jersey and upstate New York but continued to deteriorate in New York City
and especially in Manhattan. Finally, bankers report a downturn in loan demand—particularly from the
household sector—as well as ongoing tightening in credit standards and steady to higher delinquency
rates.
Consumer Spending Retail sales were reported to be on or somewhat below plan in June but still down considerably
from a year earlier, with selling prices holding fairly steady. Retail sales in New York City, which had
been lagging the rest of the region, reportedly picked up in June and early July but remain 8-10 percent
below comparable 2008 levels. Contacts in western New York State note that Canadian customer traffic
has remained weak and that sales have been stable but below plan and still down from 5 percent to 15
percent from a year earlier. One major chain indicates that, in general, moderate price line merchandise
has been selling better than either premium lines or lower-priced lines. Overall, inventories are said to be
at favorable levels, and selling prices remain stable, though a number of contacts indicate that low
inventory levels have enabled them to be a bit less promotional than in recent months. Auto dealers in
upstate New York report that sales continue to run 20-30 percent lower than a year ago—less steeply than
in other parts of the country—though the pace of decline has moderated since the last report. Tight credit

 II-2
continues to be a major issue, particularly for dealers who rely on floor plan loans to finance their
inventories. Consumer confidence was mixed in June but at low levels. The Conference Board reports that
confidence among residents of the Middle Atlantic states (NY, NJ, Pa), rose modestly in June, reaching its
highest level in over a year, though still quite low by historical standards. Siena College reports that
consumer confidence among New York State residents retreated in June, after rising in April and May.
Tourism activity in New York City has been weak but stable since the last report. Manhattan hotels
report that revenues continued to run 35-40 percent below a year ago in June; occupancy rates remained
in the mid-80s in June—down just 4-5 percentage points from a year earlier—but room rates were down
roughly 30 percent. Broadway theaters report that attendance weakened further since the last report and
was down more than 10 percent from a year earlier; however, a 15 percent jump in average ticket prices
starting in late May has boosted total revenue moderately ahead of year-ago levels.
Construction and Real Estate Commercial real estate markets in the District were, on balance, steady since the last report.
Manhattan’s office vacancy rate was steady in June but rose modestly during the second quarter; asking
rents on Class A properties continued to slip and remained more than 15 percent lower than a year earlier. There are reported to be more than 13 million square feet of space (2½ percent of the overall market)
currently under construction, partly related to the rebuilding of the World Trade Center. Around the
District, office vacancy rates have also risen in Northern New Jersey, as well as in the Rochester metro
area; however, vacancy rates are reported to be lower than a year ago in the Long Island, Buffalo,
Syracuse and Albany areas, and steady in Westchester and southwestern Connecticut. The office-building
sales market is reported to remain exceptionally weak throughout the District. Retail real estate markets are mixed: in Manhattan, the rental vacancy rate fell below 3 percent at
mid-year, though asking rents are down roughly 6 percent from a year ago; in northern New Jersey,

 II-3
however, vacancy rates have risen by a full percentage point over the past year, and rents are down
marginally. Retail real estate markets in upstate New York have been steady, on balance. Industrial
markets have been mixed: vacancy rates have climbed in northern New Jersey and metropolitan Rochester
but have eased in the Buffalo and Westchester markets. Housing markets remained soft throughout most of the District, though there were signs of
stabilization in a number of areas. Contacts in northern New Jersey indicate that the market has a
somewhat more positive tone than in recent months: prices, though still down about 15 percent over the
year, appear to have stabilized somewhat and volume has picked up moderately. There is still reported to
be a moderate degree of new development of multi-family buildings along the Hudson waterfront, but
otherwise new construction activity is described as moribund. New construction in the Buffalo-Niagara
Falls area was reported to be exceptionally slow in April and May but picked up in June; while the high
end of the market has weakened somewhat, sales activity at the low end ($150,000 and under) has
reportedly been fairly brisk, with multiple bids, sometimes above the asking price. This strength was
largely attributed to the $8,000 tax credit for first-time homebuyers. Overall, home prices have held
relatively steady in western New York State. New York City’s market, however, has shown further signs of deteriorating, in both the sales and
rental markets. In the second quarter, the median sales price for existing co-ops and condos in Manhattan
reportedly fell 26 percent from a year earlier, while the number of sales transactions fell 50 percent; the
inventory (number of units listed) was up 9%, though there is reported to be a substantial “shadow”
inventory of new apartments—condo units that are unsold but not yet listed. Brooklyn’s and Queens’
markets have also slackened in the second quarter, with median prices of existing apartments reported to
be down 15 to 17 percent from a year earlier, and the number of transactions down roughly 30 percent.
The city’s rental market has also slackened further, with asking rents reported to be down 8-12 percent
over the past year, and actual rents off more than 17 percent, on a per square foot basis. Also, landlords

 II-4
are increasingly offering concessions—free rent for one or more months—in slack neighborhoods.
Other Business Activity A leading New York City employment agency notes that the labor market, though still
exceptionally slack, has shown some signs of stabilizing since the last report—there continues to be very
little hiring activity from the financial sector, but hiring has reportedly picked up somewhat in the legal
industry. Still, there is reported to be a huge pool of candidates and few opportunities overall. More
broadly, both manufacturers and firms in other sectors generally report that they are still reducing
employment, on net. Manufacturing contacts in the District report that business activity has leveled off
since the last report, but non-manufacturing contacts overall indicate that conditions have weakened.
Still, a large proportion of both groups say they are optimistic about the business outlook. Firms across
most sectors report moderate increases in prices paid but modest declines in prices received.
Financial Developments Small to medium-sized banks report weakening loan demand across all categories, but most
notably in the residential mortgage and consumer loan categories, where 56 percent of those surveyed
report a decrease in demand. A pullback is also reported in refinancing activity. For all loan categories,
respondents indicate continued tightening of credit standards, with no banker reporting an easing of
standards. Bankers report an increase in the spreads of loan rates over costs of funds for all loan
categories—most widely in the commercial mortgage loan category. There were also widespread
increases noted in deposit rates. Finally, bankers indicate no change in delinquency rates for all loan
categories except residential mortgages, where 26 percent of bankers report increases in delinquency rates
and 15 percent report decreases.

 III - 1 THIRD DISTRICT – PHILADELPHIA Economic conditions in the Third District remained subdued in July. Manufacturers, on
balance, reported declines in shipments and new orders. Retailers gave mixed reports, although
sales were not strong overall. Motor vehicle dealers indicated that sales of new vehicles were
slow. Bank loan volume has increased slightly. Credit quality has continued to deteriorate.
Residential real estate sales increased in June and July as pent-up demand and seasonal factors
boosted sales, according to local real estate agents, but the sales rate remained below the year-
ago pace. Nonresidential real estate investment, leasing, and construction activity continued to be
slow. Business firms in the region reported level or falling input costs and output prices in July. The outlook in the Third District business community was slightly more positive in July
than at the time of the previous Beige Book, although most contacts see little prospect of strong
improvement in the immediate future. Manufacturers forecast a rise in shipments and orders
during the next six months. Retailers expect sales to gain strength slowly, but auto dealers expect
sales to remain slow for the rest of the year. Bankers anticipate demand for credit to remain
limited until overall economic conditions improve, and they expect further weakening in credit
quality as well. Residential real estate contacts believe housing demand is stabilizing, although
they say a substantial increase in sales is not imminent. Contacts in nonresidential real estate
expect leasing and purchase activity to remain weak during the rest of this year and perhaps
move up early next year.
Manufacturing Third District manufacturers reported declines in shipments and new orders, on balance,
from June to July. A bit more than one-fourth of the manufacturers surveyed noted decreases in
both measures, and slightly less than one-fourth reported increases. Demand remains weak for
the products of most of the District’s major manufacturing sectors, although producers of some
industrial materials and products noted slight increases in orders from June to July. The outlook among Third District manufacturers is positive. Among firms polled in July,
around one-half expect new orders and shipments to increase during the next six months; less
than one-tenth expect decreases. However, several of the manufacturers surveyed in July said
they expect the pickup in business to be uneven. Typical comments were that that markets are

 III - 2
mixed with “areas of strength and areas of weakness,” and that improvement is likely to be
“slight” or “spotty.”
Consumer Spending Third District retailers gave mixed reports on sales in June and July, but on balance sales
were not strong. Discount stores continued to have better results than other stores. Business at
restaurants, hotels, and other leisure and hospitality establishments remained slow. Retailers said
consumer confidence continues to be fragile, limiting consumers’ willingness to spend. The
remark of one retailer, that “Customers are keeping a more watchful eye on how they spend their
money,” was seconded by many other merchants. More positively, home improvement
contractors reported fairly good increases in demand for weatherization and energy-efficiency
products and home alterations as consumers take advantage of federal tax credits for these items.
Looking ahead, retailers are apprehensive that consumer caution will extend into the back-to-
school shopping period, although some believe a slow trend toward strengthening sales could
begin when there is evidence that the recession is bottoming out. Third District auto dealers reported that sales of new vehicles remained slow in July but
sales of used vehicles have increased recently. Dealers continue to cope with closings and
consolidations, and several are emphasizing vehicle servicing in order to maintain income.
Looking ahead, dealers said a return of consumer confidence is a prerequisite for a solid increase
in demand for new vehicles.
Finance Total outstanding loan volume at Third District banks has been moving up very slowly in
recent weeks, according to bankers contacted for this report. There have been slight gains in
consumer, business, and residential real estate lending. Most of the bankers contacted for this
report said the slowness in loan growth was a result of restrained loan demand, although some
noted that they were limiting business lending, especially in the retail, hospitality, and multi-
family residential sectors. Nevertheless, banks in the District do not appear to have imposed
overall lending restrictions, and—as one banker said—“good credits are still getting money.”
Most of the banks contacted in July said that credit quality continued to deteriorate for all
categories of lending. Some lending institutions noted increased losses on defaulted mortgages as

 III - 3
a result of declines in house prices. Bankers generally expect demand for credit to remain slack
in the near term, and some said a significant upturn in lending will not occur until there are solid
indications of overall improvement in economic conditions. Non-depository lenders in the District said financing remains tight, especially for
commercial real estate. They noted that many borrowers facing loan rollovers are having
difficulty replacing loans. Contacts in secondary debt markets are generally of the opinion that
large-scale financial restructuring over an extended period will be required to counter the decline
in securitization the has occurred since the onset of the current recession.
Real Estate and Construction Residential real estate activity in the Third District in June and July remained well below
the level of a year ago, although residential real estate contacts reported a noticeable pickup from
earlier months of the year. According to real estate agents the increase is partly seasonal and
partly the effect of “pent-up demand” rebounding from the very low pace of sales over the past
winter. Real estate agents generally indicated that the improvement in sales has been mainly for
relatively lower-priced houses. They say a wider upturn in sales will depend on significant
improvement in consumer confidence and employment. Real estate agents said price declines
appear to be easing, although in some parts of the District prices continued to drop substantially
compared with a year ago. Nonresidential real estate firms indicated that leasing and purchase activity has remained
slow. Vacancy rates have risen in office, industrial, and retail buildings. Rents have moved
down and landlord concessions have increased. Several contacts echoed the comment of one who
said, “The balance of power has moved back toward the tenant.” Contacts also indicated that
financing for commercial construction and investment remained very difficult. Contacts expect
nonresidential real estate leasing and construction activity to remain weak for the next two
quarters, at least, but several noted that the lack of new buildings coming on line this year could
move markets closer to balance in early 2010.
Prices Reports on input costs and output prices indicate mostly steady or falling prices since the
last Beige Book. Manufacturing firms noted decreases for most of the materials they use as well

 III - 4
as the products they make. Retailers indicated that their cost of goods has been about steady, and
they have kept selling prices nearly level. Several contacts in service industries, especially those
related to real estate and construction, said they have reduced fees recently.

 IV - 1 FOURTH DISTRICT – CLEVELAND The economy in the Fourth District has shown signs of stabilizing since our last report,
though activity remains sluggish. Reports from factories indicated that production stabilized at
low levels, with manufacturers expecting little change in demand during the upcoming months.
New home construction remains weak, while non-residential building activity was mixed. Credit
availability continues to be an issue for residential and commercial contractors. Sales by District
retailers were flat to slightly down. New motor vehicle sales remained weak, whereas purchases
of used vehicles were relatively strong. Coal production fell, with little change noted in oil and
gas output. Freight transport volume remains at low levels. Commercial and industrial loan
activity was mixed. Refinancing applications for residential mortgages have slowed, though
other types of consumer lending were generally characterized as stable. Core deposits increased
across the District. Employment declines were reported in manufacturing, regional banking, and coal
mining. Staffing firms noted a fall-off in job openings, with the exception of healthcare and call
centers. Given the weak labor market, wage pressures are contained. We heard widespread
reports of increased prices for metals and residential construction materials. Capital spending
was frozen or trimmed back to mainly critical maintenance projects. Manufacturing. Reports from District factories showed that production stabilized at low
levels in June and early July. Any increases cited were attributed to a slight improvement in
market demand or seasonal factors. On a year-over-year basis, factory output was sharply lower.
Manufacturers expect little change in demand during the upcoming months. Steel producers and
service centers reported that the sharp decline in shipping volume has leveled off, but volume
remains at depressed levels. The only end market showing growth was defense. Half of our
steel respondents anticipate a slight pickup through the third quarter; nevertheless, the industry is
not expecting a substantial turnaround through year’s end. District auto production rose
modestly during June on a month-over-month basis due to an increase in foreign nameplate
output. On a year-over-year basis, both domestic makers and foreign nameplates experienced a
sharp drop in production. Capacity utilization has changed little since our last report, with most contacts saying that
it is well below historic norms. Capital budgets remain frozen or have been severely curtailed.
Capital expenditures are expected to stay at depressed levels through the remainder of 2009. We
heard widespread reports of an uptick in metals prices, which is putting some upward pressure on
product pricing. A majority of our respondents made further reductions in payroll costs through

 IV - 2
layoffs, wage cuts, and reductions in production hours. Predictably, wage pressures are
contained. Real Estate. The residential construction industry remains weak. Although most
builders continued to experience a slight increase in sales, their outlook is less optimistic than in
the second quarter. Foot and Internet traffic was characterized as stable or declining, and sales
trends are expected to remain at current levels or fall off slightly through year’s end. Builders
reported that a recovery in the housing industry is being impeded by financing difficulties
(contractors and home buyers), low appraisal values, and limiting of tax credits to first-time
buyers. Discounting has been reduced significantly. We heard widespread reports of increased
prices for lumber, shingles, and concrete; these were attributed to seasonal factors. General
contractors continue to operate with skeleton crews, and subcontractors are readily available at
very competitive prices. Reports on nonresidential construction activity were mixed, with some improvement seen
by contractors participating in public works and education projects. We heard several reports of
a slight pickup in backlogs and inquiries. All of our respondents said that business has dropped
below its level a year ago. Looking forward to 2010, half of our contacts expect construction
activity will be very weak. Although a few contractors anticipate some growth next year, they
do not expect a return to 2008 levels. We continued to hear numerous accounts of difficulties in
obtaining financing for private-sector projects. Any increases cited in construction materials
prices were attributed to seasonal factors and the recent run-up in oil prices. Apart from seasonal
help, only two general contractors noted that they have hired a few workers due to increased
project work. Subcontractors are readily available at very competitive rates. Consumer Spending. June sales for District retailers were flat to slightly down on a
month-over-month basis. Further, consumers continued to focus on purchasing less expensive
necessities. Most retailers expect little change during the third quarter, with some pick-up
toward year’s end. On balance, vendor and retail pricing has been stable. Accounts from auto
dealers indicated that new vehicle sales remained weak for the most part during June and were
down sharply on a year-over-year basis. However, reports showed considerable differences
across brands in sales and dealer inventories. Purchases of used vehicles remain relatively
strong, which is putting some upward pressure on prices at auctions and dealer lots. Most
dealers are uncertain about future sales due to weak economic activity, stringent credit conditions
(floor plan and buyer), and the fallout from the Chrysler and GM bankruptcies. On balance,
there has been little change in staffing levels at retailers. Capital expenditures by retailers remain

 IV - 3
on plan but have been trimmed back from 2008 levels. Banking. Commercial and industrial (C&I) loan demand is decidedly mixed. Regional
banks reported declining loan demand and balances, while community bankers commented that
their C&I pipelines are filling up, in part because they are attracting business from large regional
banks. Spreads on business loans are steady to increasing. On the consumer side, loan demand
was characterized as stable to up slightly, with steady interest rates. A few community bankers
told us that indirect lending is doing very well. Applications for refinancing residential
mortgages have slowed. Core deposits increased across the District. Credit quality deteriorated
somewhat on the consumer and business sides. Delinquencies at many banks continued to rise,
particularly for commercial and residential real estate loans. Higher lending standards remain
firmly in place, with no easing expected. Several bankers expect credit to tighten further going
forward. Staffing levels at a few regional banks are being reduced due to mergers and a
contraction of specific business lines. In contrast, some community banks are hiring ahead of
foreseeable growth. Energy. Coal executives reported continuing production declines, which they attributed
to weakening demand from electric utilities. One executive noted that contract prices for coal
have dropped 50 percent since the beginning of the year. Little change in oil and gas production
was reported, though drilling activity has fallen off substantially in some regions. Spot prices for
natural gas and oil are trending downward. For the most part, the costs of production equipment
and materials have fallen. Capital spending by coal producers has been cut back and is restricted
to some critical maintenance projects, while expenditures by oil and gas producers remain as
projected. Employment levels in the oil and gas industry were largely stable, although coal
executives reported workforce reductions and cuts in overtime. Transportation. Freight transport executives reported that shipping volume remains at
low levels and is down substantially on a year-over-year basis across all market segments. Any
pickup cited was attributed to seasonal factors or competitors exiting the market. A majority of
our contacts expect activity to stay at current levels through year’s end. Nevertheless, a few
executives anticipate that volume will begin to gradually pickup during the third quarter but
remain well below 2008 levels. Shipping rates remain very competitive, and capital spending is
restricted to replacement only. On the labor front, we heard a few reports of wage cuts or freezes
and minimal hiring for spot shortages.

 V-1 FIFTH DISTRICT–RICHMOND Overview. On balance, economic conditions in the Fifth District remained weak in June
and early July. Retail and services firm revenues continued to shrink, and contacts reported
falling wages and steady or declining employment levels. Price growth in the service sector was
slow. Commercial real estate activity softened further, with declining rents, increased
concessions, and rising vacancy rates in some markets. Commercial lending activity continued to
decline as loan demand remained subdued and some institutions reported tightened credit
standards. Meanwhile, residential real estate contacts gave mixed reports about housing activity.
Residential lending slowed as the slight increase in purchase loans was offset by a drop in
demand for refinances. On a brighter note, manufacturing activity continued to strengthen in
recent weeks as contacts reported increased shipments, new orders, and capacity utilization, and a
moderation in the employment decline. Retail. Retail sales generally contracted in recent weeks as retailers reduced their
inventories and shopper traffic remained down. The manager at a chain department store located
outside the Washington, D.C., beltway observed retailers “fighting for a little piece of what
money is out there.” On the other hand, a grocer in southwest Virginia reported increased foot
traffic, although “customers are not buying as much per transaction either in items or in dollar
terms.” Big-ticket sales languished, according to most contacts. Sales of domestically produced
vehicles generally remained in the doldrums, although dealers of automobiles and light trucks
told us that sales of foreign nameplates were soft to “pretty good,” and a few building supply
establishments in coastal South Carolina reported an uptick in sales. Many retail merchants cut
payrolls, although some filled permanent or temporary vacancies. Growth in retail prices slowed
somewhat in recent weeks, while average retail wages fell. Services. Contacts at services firms reported that revenues declined since our last report,
albeit at a slower pace. A financial services executive noted that people were more cautious and
holding more cash than usual. According to a Virginia web-based business owner, “Projects
either aren’t starting or are running out of money.” Consumers also cut back. The business
manager at a fitness organization in central North Carolina said membership and class revenues
fell in recent weeks. In contrast, executives at hospitals and healthcare systems reported steady
demand for their services. An executive at a hospital in central North Carolina said the hospital

 V-2
was starting to see more unemployed patients, though most were covered by COBRA. Contacts
generally noted either steady or declining employment. Average wages at services firms
continued to shrink while price growth at services businesses was mild. Manufacturing. District manufacturing activity continued to strengthen in June and the
first half of July. Contacts reported increases in shipments, new orders, capacity utilization and
the average workweek, while noting that the decline in employment had moderated considerably.
Demand was notably stronger for apparel, chemicals, food, printing and publishing, rubber and
plastics, and textile manufacturers. A spark plug producer in West Virginia observed a jump in
orders and noted that, “customer forecasts going out 3 to 4 months are showing a steady
increase.” A contact at a chemical plant in South Carolina reported considerable growth in orders
from China, India, and other East Asian markets, while a textile manufacturer in North Carolina
observed that, “We passed the eye of the storm about four weeks ago.” Contacts indicated that
both raw materials and finished goods prices grew more slowly. Finance. Residential lending activity slowed a bit in June and early July across the Fifth
District. Contacts reported a slight increase in purchase loans; however, the uptick was not
enough to offset a “dramatic” fall in demand for refinances. First-time purchases and
conventional mortgages reportedly composed the bulk of activity, while contacts noted little
demand for jumbo loans. Credit standards tightened a bit to adhere to changes in Freddie, Fannie,
and FHA guidelines, but lenders reported no internal changes. On the commercial side, lending activity continued to decline, with demand for loans
“unseasonably low.” Contacts reported an uptick in loan prices, especially for mid-grade
borrowers. Credit standards were unchanged at some institutions, while others reported further
tightening. Changes included requiring pre-existing depository relationships with the borrower,
stricter adherence to policies on loan-to-value ratios and risk grade requirements, and increased
scrutiny of paper work—especially for commercial mortgages. However, contacts stressed that
despite more stringent credit standards over the last year, they were still lending. In addition,
credit quality of existing portfolios was little changed since our last report. Real Estate. Residential real estate agents gave mixed reports about recent housing
activity. In Fairfax, Va., a Realtor reported that the heart of the market was “hot” as houses in the
$400K to $1.2 million price range sold the fastest. Similarly, contacts in the Washington, D.C.,

 V-3
area reported sales increases over last year, fueled by sales of properties under $1 million. A
Realtor in Greenville, S.C., said June had been his “best month” and that houses in the low- to
middle-price range remained the best sellers. On a less positive note, Realtors in Richmond, Va.,
Greensboro, N.C., and Asheville, N.C., reported more sluggish house sales. The Richmond
Realtor called sales “way off the mark” while the contact in Asheville observed his area
“buckling down and weathering the storm.” House prices either held steady or declined across
much of the District. Commercial real estate activity remained weak since our last report as contacts reported
fewer prospects and smaller transaction sizes. Contacts cited multiple reasons for recent
transactions that did occur, including firms cutting back on space, moving to a less expensive
building, or extending existing contracts early in order to negotiate lower rental rates. Relatedly,
rents softened across most District markets, while agents observed that concessions—especially
free rent—remained widespread. Vacancy rates were fairly stable in Charleston, W.Va., and
Greenville, but edged up in other markets. Contacts reported no new large development projects,
which they believed would help limit increases in vacancy rates. Commercial sales were
“practically nonexistent” in recent weeks. There were, however, a few sales for owner-occupied
buildings, and a Charleston contact reported normal sales of office buildings, churches, and land.
Additionally, owners not needing to sell immediately were reportedly pulling their properties off
markets. Sales prices trended down in most District markets. Tourism. Assessments of tourist activity varied since our last report. Along the coast,
contacts reported that although the July 4th holiday weekend bookings matched or exceeded year-
ago levels, summer business was generally weaker than a year ago. Analysts from Myrtle Beach,
S.C., and Virginia Beach, Va., noted a considerably shortened booking cycle and double-digit
discounts at many hotels. Moreover, a contact on the Outer Banks of North Carolina said that
rental agencies were discounting heavily. A respondent at a mountain resort in West Virginia
described holiday bookings as somewhat weaker than a year ago. In contrast, a manager at a
mountain lodge in Virginia indicated that occupancy rates over the holiday were in line with last
year, restaurants were busy, and retail numbers looked good. Temporary Employment. Temporary employment agents gave mixed reports on demand
for workers in recent weeks. While a contact in Richmond, Va., reported a slight pickup in

 V-4
demand for workers in the medical industry, and a Hagerstown, Md., contact reported some
increase in the government and education sectors, both saw generally reduced demand. In
contrast, a contact reported “somewhat strong” demand in the Raleigh, N.C., area, especially for
manufacturing labor, and another Raleigh contact noted a “reemergence” of several clients who
had lately been “dormant.” Some of the skills in greatest demand included workers proficient in
IT and Microsoft Office, in addition to specialized managers and minimum wage workers. Agriculture. Although there were scattered reports of rainfall, dry conditions persisted in
most areas since our last report. In North Carolina, South Carolina, and Virginia, analysts
reported heightened concerns about inadequate soil moisture and crop development. In some
places, however, the dry weather improved the progress of various crops. In Maryland, the
harvest of most vegetable crops was in full swing and apple and peach crops in both Maryland
and West Virginia were reported to be in generally good condition. Likewise, producers in
Virginia completed the small grain harvest and the planting of double-crop soybeans.

 VI-1 SIXTH DISTRICT – ATLANTA Summary. Sixth District business contacts reported that economic activity
remained generally weak through mid-July. Retail sales and traffic continued to be soft,
but were largely in line with retailer’s modest expectations. Tourism-related spending
was also sluggish, and auto industry contacts reported further declines in new-vehicle
sales. Reports from real estate contacts indicated that home sales, especially in the starter
home market, had shown some signs of stabilizing. Encouragingly, most Florida contacts
reported that home sales were above their year-ago readings. Also, indicators point to a
moderating in the pace of decline in manufacturing activity. However, commercial real
estate activity continued to slow, with more projects put on hold or cancelled. Banking
contacts remarked that tight credit conditions remained in place and that demand for new
loans continued to be soft in the current environment. Labor market conditions
deteriorated further in June and early July, with unemployment rising in most areas. Price
pressures continued to be relatively subdued throughout the District. Consumer Spending and Tourism. Retail contacts noted that sales and traffic
remained below year-ago levels and were largely in line with their expectations. Most
merchants had adjusted their inventories as a result of the weak sales performance and
indicated that they were not anticipating adding to stocks in the short-term. Several auto
dealers reported lower new-vehicle sales, and most industry contacts noted a pickup in
the used-car business that was helping to offset poor sales of new vehicles. According to most hospitality industry contacts, travel and tourism spending
decreased across most of the region. Several reports mentioned lower profit margins as a
consequence of heavy price discounting and modest spending by vacationers. As a result,
most contacts reported continuing to trim staffing levels. A significant decline in
business-related travel and convention attendance was also noted in some areas. Real Estate and Construction. Reports from most District homebuilders and
Realtors indicated that the pace of decline in home sales continued to moderate. Most
Florida contacts experienced improvements in sales, particularly for existing homes,
although partly because of increased foreclosure sales. Most contacts continued to note
downward pressure on home prices from foreclosures and short-sales. Both builders and
Realtors noted some increased demand at the low-end of the housing market. The

 VI-2
majority of homebuilders and contractors reported that new home construction remained
at very low levels. The outlook among builders and Realtors had improved in recent
months, but in June expectations for sales over the next several months moderated
following the end of the peak spring selling season. Commercial real estate activity continued to trend lower in June and through mid-
July. Vacancy rates rose in many parts of the District, which has put additional downward
pressure on rents. Contacts reported that some tenants were requesting lower lease rates
on existing contracts. Commercial construction continued to slow as well. Contractors
continued to report an increasing number of projects being delayed or cancelled,
especially in the retail sector. Several contacts noted that some delayed projects were
being re-bid to take advantage of the willingness of contractors to lower their bids, thus
raising the possibility that some postponed projects could get underway in coming
months. Manufacturing and Transportation. Regional manufacturing contacts
indicated that the rate of decline in production and new orders moderated further in June
and early July. Most reports also noted an improved outlook for the coming months.
However, providers of transportation services continued to indicate a reduction in
container volume from both retailers and manufacturers. Trucking contacts noted that an
oversupply of trucks relative to demand was putting downward pressure on freight rates
and squeezing profit margins. Rail shipments for lumber, gravel, autos, and chemicals
were down from a year earlier. Banking and Finance. Credit conditions remained relatively unchanged since
the last report. Banking contacts continued to indicate that access to credit remained tight,
with loans only being given to consumers with very good credit scores and to business
customers with stable cash flows. Lenders reported that they continued to focus on
building reserves in June and early July as loan defaults continued to rise. Employment and Prices. District business contacts continued to report weak
labor market conditions and rising unemployment in June and early July. Although most
reported that the worst of the layoffs are behind them, some auto and oil and gas
companies noted that they were planning additional job cuts in the coming months.
Reports of hiring were limited to healthcare and the defense and aerospace industry, with

 VI-3
most other business contacts noting that they do not plan to increase hours or workforce
in the near term. There were a few reports of employers taking advantage of the
increased supply of skilled labor to increase the quality of their workforce. Construction and manufacturing firms reported that raw material prices generally
had moderated by mid-July after having increased in late spring. However, most prices
received for finished manufactured products remained down from a year earlier. Some
contacts noted that they were unsuccessful in attempts to pass on higher input costs to
their customers. Most retailers reported that prices remained relatively stable. Natural Resources and Agriculture. As of mid-July, only half as many rigs
were operating in the Gulf of Mexico compared with the same period a year earlier.
Despite the gain in energy prices since the beginning of the year, energy industry contacts
indicated that District producers have been gradually scaling back operations in response
to increasing inventory levels and weaker domestic demand. District farm crops, particularly citrus, benefitted from favorable weather in June
through mid-July. Moisture conditions were adequate in all areas, with the exception of
southern Louisiana. Lower domestic and global textile mill demand continued to trouble
the near-term outlook for the District's cotton producers.

 VII-1 SEVENTH DISTRICT—CHICAGO Summary. Economic activity in the Seventh District remained weak in June and early July,
but the pace of decline slowed from the previous reporting period. Consumer and business spending
were sluggish. Manufacturing and construction activity remained at low levels, although both
sectors showed some signs of improvement. Labor market conditions deteriorated, but the pace of
job loss slowed. Credit conditions, although moderately improved, remained tight. Price and wage
pressures were minimal. The outlook for crop production improved; crop and livestock prices fell as
did costs for livestock operations. Consumer spending. Consumer spending continued to be sluggish in June and early July.
Households remained price conscious, focusing on necessities and holding back on purchases of
most big-ticket and luxury items. Retailers expected a poor back-to-school season and planned to
maintain low levels of inventory until the uncertainty surrounding the state of the economy recedes.
Contacts noted that tourism activity was down over the July 4th holiday weekend, even more so
than last year’s poor showing. In contrast, auto dealers reported higher sales, which helped to bring
inventories more in line with typical levels. New incentives and interest in brands expected to be
discontinued after this model year were both cited as contributors to increases in showroom traffic
and sales. However, the closing of dealerships as a result of the GM and Chrysler bankruptcies was
indicated to be negatively affecting local communities. Business spending. The pace of business spending was also sluggish. Contacts again
indicated that they were delaying capital expenditures until the general decline in economic activity
abates. Labor market conditions in the District continued to deteriorate, due in large part to
weakness in the manufacturing sector. However, while some additional layoffs and reductions in
hours through mandatory furloughs were reported, the pace of job loss slowed from the previous
reporting period. Hiring activity remained limited outside of healthcare and education, although a
few contacts reported increasing hiring plans. Several auto assembly plants reopened in late June
and early July, but a contact noted that many of these plants will be coming back on-line with fewer
employees. Similar cuts were also expected for auto suppliers. In contrast, one supplier reported
rehiring workers let go earlier in the year due to improving sales trends and expectations of greater
auto production for the remainder of the year. Construction/real estate. Construction activity in the District remained weak. Residential
construction was low, especially for apartments and condominiums. However, several contacts

 VII-2
noted either a bottoming out or small increase in sales of new single-family homes. The number of
signed contracts declined at a slower pace with showroom traffic remaining slow but steady and
cancellations declining. Many more foreclosed homes reached the stage of repossession and sale,
putting downward pressure on home prices. Contacts in the mortgage industry reported a small
increase in purchase applications. Nonresidential construction declined, led by the commercial and
industrial sectors where high vacancy rates remained a concern. In contrast, public sector
construction increased. Furthermore, a contact noted that several large nonresidential projects which
recently broke ground and additional projects in the pipeline suggest a small increase in activity in
the coming months. Credit continued to be tight for residential and commercial developers. Manufacturing. Manufacturing activity remained weak, but conditions improved from the
previous reporting period. Manufacturers of medium and heavy trucks and heavy machinery
continued to report weak activity. The shutdown of several auto plants was reported to have had
negative impacts, but contacts also noted that the quick resolution of the Chrysler and GM
bankruptcies had been beneficial for business confidence. Conditions remained weak for auto
suppliers, and contacts indicated that financial support from the automakers may be necessary at
some point to prevent a loss in production capacity. Automakers reported some signs of firming in
prices and a return to comfortable levels of inventories, and have scheduled a pickup in production
in July. In addition, demand from overseas was noted to have picked up, and pharmaceutical
production remained strong. Steel production increased as service centers looked to replenish their
inventories. One contact in the steel industry said that orders had filled the reduced capacity levels
through the summer and that consideration was being given to bringing some idle capacity back on-
line later in the year. Other metals-related industries noted soft conditions. Banking/finance. Credit conditions in the District remained tight, but improved moderately
from the previous reporting period. Consumer credit demand stabilized at a low level as standards
remained tight. Banking contacts indicated that loan quality had been better than expected,
reflecting smaller increases in unemployment and increases in transfer payments from the recent
economic stimulus package. Business loan demand remained weak with standards still tight and
most firms reluctant to borrow. Terms continued to tighten in commercial real estate, as contacts
indicated that loan quality was likely to continue to deteriorate. However, contacts noted that, in
general, bankruptcies had slowed and that financing costs for a number of area corporations had
improved along with the rise in equity prices. A number of financial sector contacts expressed
concern that the uncertainty surrounding the regulatory environment was potentially having harmful

 VII-3
consequences for credit creation. In addition, some were concerned about the limited time frame
being discussed to implement new rules and regulations. Prices/costs. Price pressures were mixed, with energy prices falling and some material
prices rising. A number of contacts noted declining gasoline prices in July. In contrast, contacts
reported higher steel prices, with further increases expected by summer’s end due to lean supplier
inventories. The closing of several lumber mills contributed to increasing plywood prices. Prices of
other industrial metals like copper and aluminum were little changed. Wage pressures were limited,
although some contacts noted continued cuts to benefits. In the retail sector, recent increases in the
minimum wage reportedly led to cutbacks in hours. Pass-through of wage and price pressures to
downstream prices was minimal as contacts indicated that pricing power remained limited. Agriculture. Corn and soybean prices declined during the reporting period. Crop
conditions remained better than last year, and markets were surprised by an increase in corn acres
planted. Moreover, District farmers planted more acres of both corn and soybeans than a year ago.
Although crop maturation was behind the typical pace due to planting delays, favorable weather in
June and early July improved the outlook for both corn and soybeans. Lower demand for livestock
feed also contributed to the decline in crop prices. Reduced costs for feed were not enough,
however, to offset continued low prices for dairy, hogs, and cattle. One contact expressed the view
that agriculture has lost the financial cushion that was built up in previous years. Many farmers
forward contracted only a relatively small portion of their production and were not well prepared for
the quick decline in crop prices. In addition, some livestock herds have been liquidated, as
producers were unable to secure financing for operations.

 VIII-1 Eighth District - St. Louis
Summary The pace of decline of economic activity in the Eighth District has moderated since our
previous report. Activity in the manufacturing and services sectors contracted at a slower pace.
Reports from retailers and auto dealers were mixed. Residential and commercial real estate
markets conditions continued to be weak. Total loans at a sample of small and midsized District
banks declined slightly from early April to mid-June.
Manufacturing and Other Business Activity Manufacturing activity declined since our previous report but at a slower pace, as
reported job losses slightly outpaced new job announcements. Several manufacturers reported
plans to close plants or reduce operations, but a similar number of contacts reported plans to
open plants and expand operations in the near future. Contacts in aerospace product
manufacturing, electrical equipment manufacturing, and frozen food manufacturing reported
plans to lay off workers and decrease operations. A firm in the paint/adhesive manufacturing
industry announced that it will close a plant in the District, and several auto parts and auto
manufacturing firms furloughed a large number of workers and reduced production as a result of
the industry’s restructuring plans. In contrast, firms in the furniture manufacturing, fabricated
metal product manufacturing, plastic product manufacturing, paper manufacturing, and rail
technology manufacturing industries reported plans to expand facilities in the District and hire
additional workers. A major firm in steel manufacturing resumed production and recalled
several shifts of idled workers. The District's services sector continued to decline in most areas but a slower pace. A
large number of contacts in education services, information services, business support services,

 VIII-2
and medical services announced job cuts. In contrast, contacts in the government services and
health/social services industries announced plans to hire additional workers. Also, several cities
in the District continued to report that they will be hiring temporary and part-time summer
workers in a range of service industries using funds allocated through the American Recovery
and Reinvestment Act of 2009. Contacts in the retail sector reported a mixed outlook. Smaller
retailers responded to a slowdown in store traffic with a mixture of promotions and discounted
merchandise. In contrast, a major big-box retailer in the District continued to experience growth,
particularly by targeting higher-income consumers. Auto dealers’ reports were mixed; several
franchise owners are going out of business, converting to used-car dealerships, or transitioning
into service/repair centers. Contacts reported that smaller cars continue to sell well with a
limited market for large trucks and sport utility vehicles.
Real Estate and Construction Home sales continued to decline throughout the Eighth District. Compared with the same
period in 2008, May 2009 year-to-date home sales were down 13 percent in St. Louis, 22 percent
in Memphis, 32 percent in Little Rock, and 35 percent in Louisville. Residential construction
also continued to decline. May 2009 year-to-date single-family housing permits fell in nearly all
District metro areas compared with the same period in 2008. Permits declined 30 percent in
Little Rock, 37 percent in St. Louis, 44 percent in Louisville, and 56 percent in Memphis. Commercial real estate and construction markets continued to struggle throughout the
District. A contact in Memphis noted that commercial real estate foreclosures are likely to
increase as a result of current credit conditions. A contact in St. Louis noted that, with the
exception of institutional and health care–related projects, little construction is taking place.
Industrial real estate and construction contacts throughout the District also continued to report a

 VIII-3
difficult environment. Contacts in the Louisville area expressed disappointment regarding the
slow impact of the stimulus bill and the size of projects it has funded to date.
Banking and Finance Total loans outstanding at a sample of small and midsized District banks decreased 1.3
percent from early April to mid-June. Real estate lending, which accounts for 73.0 percent of
total loans, decreased 0.9 percent. Commercial and industrial loans, accounting for 16.7 percent
of total loans, decreased 3.4 percent. Loans to individuals, accounting for 5.3 percent of total
loans, decreased 3.0 percent. All other loans, roughly 5.0 percent of total loans, rose 0.7 percent.
During this period, total deposits at these banks decreased 0.6 percent.
Agriculture and Natural Resources For the most part, development of the District's major crops remained behind its 5-year
average pace. In mid-July, the overall condition of soybeans was slightly better than last year,
while the condition of sorghum, rice, and cotton was slightly worse than last year, and corn was
similar to last year. Farmers in the District states planned to harvest more acres of corn for grain,
soybeans, and rice than in 2008 but fewer acres of sorghum for grain. The winter wheat harvest
was nearly complete in all District states except Illinois and Indiana, where it was slightly behind
its normal pace. Based on July estimates, total winter wheat production in the District states was
expected to be down 41 percent from last year's bumper crop, but only 5 percent below the 2007
level.

 IX-1 NINTH DISTRICT--MINNEAPOLIS
The Ninth District economy contracted since the last report. Decreases in activity occurred
in the retail spending, tourism, services, residential construction, agriculture, mining and
manufacturing sectors. The commercial construction sector was stable at low levels, while
the energy and residential real estate sectors saw moderate increases. Labor markets
slackened since the last report, and wage increases were moderate. While a number of
prices were lower than a year ago, prices have generally remained stable since the last
report.
Consumer Spending and Tourism
Retail spending remained constrained. A major Minneapolis-based retailer reported that
same-store sales in June were down 6 percent compared with a year earlier. Recent same-
store sales at a Minnesota-based hair care company dropped 4 percent, and sales at a
Montana mall were flat to down slightly from a year ago, according the mall manager.
Meanwhile, sales at a North Dakota mall were down about 3 percent in June compared
with a year earlier. A representative of a Minnesota-based food retailer noted that
consumers were value-focused and cautious with their spending. A Minnesota-based
high-end seafood restaurant chain recently filed for bankruptcy. Auto sales picked up slightly since the last report. Auto repair and auto parts
businesses reported an increase in activity. Three domestic auto dealers, two in
Minnesota and one in northwestern Wisconsin, noted increases in sales during June and
early July. However, a western Montana auto dealer noted that sales were down more
than 50 percent compared with the past couple of years. Tourism activity was down from a year ago. Summer tourism activity in the
Upper Peninsula of Michigan dropped about 15 percent, according to a tourism official.
Occupancy at hotels and resorts in northeastern Minnesota was down 5 percent to 20
percent. Hotels in western Montana noted occupancy down 4 percent to 10 percent;
hotels were discounting prices to draw people to their facilities. The number of tourists in
northwestern Wisconsin was equal to or greater than last summer, but overall sales
activity was slow.
Services
Services sector activity fell since the last report. Several law firms reported reduced
demand. A software development company based in Minnesota cut back on development.

 IX-2
Architects reported continued slow demand for their services. However, demand for health
services picked up, and accountants who deal with business workouts reported increased
activity.
Construction and Real Estate
Commercial construction was stable at low levels. A Bank director noted that bidding
activity was up in the Helena, Mont., area but that large contractors were mostly bidding
on smaller jobs. A number of civic projects were under construction around the District.
However, commercial permits in Sioux Falls, S.D., decreased 40 percent in value in June
from a year earlier. Residential construction was slower. June housing permits were down
25 percent in value from a year earlier in Minneapolis-St. Paul and decreased 30 percent
in Fargo, N.D. Commercial real estate markets were slow. A representative of a state bankers’
association said the number of troubled commercial property loans has increased.
Vacancies were particularly pronounced in retail and industrial markets throughout the
District. Several contacts reported that tenants were asking for rent decreases. Residential
real estate activity increased. Closed home sales in Minneapolis-St. Paul increased 20
percent in June from a year earlier, but the dollar volume of sales was flat, as median sale
prices were down more than 15 percent. Realtors in western Montana said sales were
steady there for lower-priced homes, but slow for high-end properties.
Manufacturing
Manufacturing activity decreased since the last report. A June survey of purchasing
managers by Creighton University (Omaha, Neb.) indicated that activity declined in
Minnesota and the Dakotas. A Minnesota specialized-equipment company reduced
production. A South Dakota producer of skid-steer and front-end loaders cut production
in response to weak demand. However, a Minnesota diversified manufacturer reported
that sales have stabilized after its customers drew down inventory earlier in the year.
Energy and Mining
Activity in the energy sector increased slightly, while the mining sector continued to fall.
Early July oil and gas exploration edged up from early June. New wind energy projects
were announced since the last report. As iron ore inventories have accumulated at the
shipping ports, a mine in northern Minnesota plans to shut production for about a year.

 IX-3
Agriculture
Agricultural conditions weakened since the last report. Potato growers in the Red River
Valley could lose 20 percent of their crop due to heavy rains, while drought conditions
persist in northern Wisconsin. Corn, soybean and wheat prices are expected to fall,
according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture. District production of wheat and barley
is expected to drop significantly in 2009 from strong 2008 levels. In addition, progress for
the District corn and soybean crops was behind its five-year average pace.
Employment, Wages and Prices
Labor markets slackened since the last report. The University of Minnesota recently
announced plans to reduce the school’s workforce by 1,200 positions over the next year,
mostly through attrition, but 370 employees are expected to be laid off. Also in
Minnesota, a trucking company with 200 employees recently announced it will close by
the end of August, a Minnesota-based regional airline plans to furlough up to 110 pilots
and a health insurance company will lay off 100 workers. A Montana sawmill recently
closed, resulting in 85 lay-offs. A work platform lifts plant in North Dakota will shut
down this fall, resulting in 61 lost jobs. A temporary staffing agency survey of
Minneapolis-St. Paul businesses showed that 13 percent of respondents expect to hire
workers during the third quarter, while 19 percent expect to reduce staff. A Minnesota
staffing services company noted that the pace of business in early July was much slower
than usual. However, another placement company noted an increase in demand for
experienced information technology workers. Wage increases were moderate. According to respondents to a recent St. Cloud
(Minn.) Area Business Outlook Survey, 24 percent expect to increase employee
compensation over the next six months, down from 35 percent in last year’s survey. A
Minnesota bank branch cut pay by 5 percent for all salaried staff. While a number of prices were lower than a year ago, prices have generally
remained stable since the last report. Metal prices held relatively stable since the last
report, although recent increases in some copper and steel products were noted. Minnesota
gasoline prices in early July were 17 cents per gallon lower than a month ago.

 X-1 TENTH DISTRICT - KANSAS CITY The Tenth District economy showed further signs of stabilization in June. Consumer
spending was generally sluggish but improvements were noted in auto sales and tourism
spending. Manufacturing activity expanded modestly, primarily in nondurable goods production. Residential real estate activity held steady; however, commercial real estate firms reported
weakening market conditions. Employment in the energy sector continued to contract in
response to low natural gas prices. Bankers reported weaker loan demand, stable deposits, and a
continued negative outlook for loan quality. While growing conditions improved, agricultural
profit opportunities softened, especially for livestock producers. Despite higher input prices,
retail price pressures eased and little evidence of wage pressures was reported in District labor
markets. Consumer Spending. District retailers reported a weaker than expected uptick in
consumer activity since the last survey. General retailers reported a slight improvement in
overall sales activity, highlighted by stronger sales for home furnishings, appliances, and other
household items. Auto dealers reported an increase in sales volume in June, with the greatest
unit gains in small new cars and all types of used cars. Dealers reported offering only a modest
level of incentives to buyers and were largely satisfied with existing inventories; however, dealer
access to credit remained tight. Demand for all types of apparel remained soft heading into the
critical back-to-school season. Restaurant operators reported weaker overall sales and a
continued decline in average check size. Tourism spending rebounded in June but remained
below expectations, especially at mountain resorts. Casino revenues remained strong in
Oklahoma and Missouri, but declined in other District states. Manufacturing and Other Business Activity. The Tenth District’s manufacturing,
transportation, and high-tech sectors showed tentative signs of increased business activity. The
manufacturing sector reported a slight improvement in production, shipment volumes, and new
orders in June – a marked improvement from the sharp contractions reported in the early spring.
The strongest manufacturing production increases were reported in nondurable sectors. Durable
goods production was flat and showed little sign of expansion, with sharp contractions in
aviation and oil and gas-driven machinery sectors. District manufacturing firms reported an

 X-2
increase in weekly hours worked but did not expect to hire new workers for many months. New
export orders returned to a near neutral position after showing weakness since last summer.
Factory managers expected conditions to remain unchanged over the next six months.
Technology-related firms reported increased business activity, with strength noted in clean
technology and defense-driven aerospace. Like manufacturing, transportation firms reported a
similar improvement in overall business activity. Real Estate and Construction. Residential real estate firms reported stronger sales
volumes in June but commercial real estate activity weakened further. Home inventory levels
improved further in all District states, with strong sales in the lower and middle price tiers of the
market. Starter home sales remained strong due to first-time homebuyer tax credits and sales
volumes improved for bank owned and investor properties. Housing prices remained firm in
Kansas and Oklahoma, while foreclosures weighed most heavily on the Colorado and New
Mexico housing markets. Home builders cited unfavorable borrowing terms, mounting
foreclosures, and a slower than expected inventory adjustment as the major reasons limiting a
construction rebound. Commercial real estate weakened further with declines in completions
and construction underway. Vacancy rates in the District rose further and absorption rates
declined. Few commercial real estate firms expected a recovery by the end of 2010, although
some commercial builders noted increased competitive pressures from firms outside the region
seeking opportunities in District markets. Further declines in commercial real estate prices and
rents were expected. Commercial real estate firms said the market favored buyers and tenants,
leaving them little negotiating leverage. Banking. Bankers reported weaker loan demand, stable deposits, and a continued
negative outlook for loan quality. Overall loan demand declined moderately after showing signs
of stabilizing in the previous survey. Demand for residential real estate loans rose more slowly,
while demand for commercial and industrial loans resumed declining following a brief pause in
the last survey. Demand for commercial real estate loans and consumer installment loans also
fell somewhat. Some banks continued to report tighter credit standards on commercial and
industrial loans and commercial real estate loans, and a few banks reported tighter standards on
consumer installment loans. Loan quality remained substantially lower than a year ago, and
about half the banks expected loan quality to decline further in the next six months. Deposits

 X-3
were little changed, following a substantial increase in the previous survey. Energy. The energy sector remained a drag on overall District economic activity in June. Nearly all contacts reported no change in drilling activity and did not expect any improvement in
the months ahead. Although national crude oil prices were above $60 per barrel, low natural gas
prices limited drilling activity and encouraged well shut-ins. Low natural gas prices created a
particular financial strain on Wyoming, Colorado, and New Mexico producers where the spread
between regional and national prices remained large. Producers generally expected prices for
both crude oil and natural gas to remain at or above current levels over the next three months.
Several contacts reported considerable reductions in their workforce and have no plans to
increase hiring in the near future. Many firms noted selectivity in their workforce reductions in
order to retain critical high skill workers and the ability to respond quickly when pricing
conditions improve. Agriculture. While growing conditions improved, profit opportunities softened for
agricultural producers since the last survey period. Ample rainfall in June and early July aided
growing conditions but declining commodity prices dampened farm income expectations.
Though corn and soybean development was lagging due to cooler temperatures, crops were still
reported in good condition. Due to weather damage, wheat producers in the southern portions of
the District harvested fewer acres and reported below average yields; however, growers located
further north anticipated above average wheat yields. Soft demand for meat continued to put
downward pressure on livestock prices, and producers responded with further herd liquidations.
Farmland values held firm, supported by the limited supply of farms for sale coupled with solid
demand from farm operators and renewed interest from non-farm investors. Wages and Prices. District contacts reported limited pass through of higher input prices
and little evidence of wage pressures across District labor markets. Rising fuel costs pushed up
producer prices, although few producers planned to raise output prices in the future. Builders
reported higher prices for supplies, especially roofing products and asphalt. Manufacturers
reported that raw materials and finished goods prices were largely unchanged. Retail prices
edged down and were expected to soften further; however, restaurant menu prices increased.
Only a small number of firms reported labor shortages, resulting in little to no wage pressures.

 XI - 1 ELEVENTH DISTRICT – DALLAS
Economic activity in the Eleventh District remained mostly steady at subdued levels in June and early
July. Contacts in many industries noted some stabilization in demand, but few expected any real
turnaround in the near-term. Outlooks remain very uncertain and businesses continue to cut costs and
reduce payrolls. Price and wage pressures remain minimal. Prices Most firms continued to report downward price pressures. Fee reductions were noted in
several industries, including temporary staffing, accounting and legal services and construction. Auto
dealers said prices had firmed slightly, but remain low due to anemic demand and high inventories.
Eleventh District-based airlines continued to reduce fares, although at a slower pace. Manufacturers said selling prices were flat to down. Petrochemicals remained an exception, as
some product prices were driven higher by the uptick in oil prices. Raw materials prices were mostly
stable, but some contacts said higher fuel costs had squeezed margins. There were scattered reports of
increases for some types of steel products among nonresidential construction contacts. Prices for light sweet crude oil stayed near $70 per barrel throughout June, but fell back to $60 in
early July. According to contacts the rise to $70 per barrel seemed to defy market fundamentals of weak
demand and high inventories. Natural gas prices remained relatively weak, moving briefly over $4 per
Mcf in June before falling back to $3.50 by early July. Natural gas prices are expected to remain low as
inventories are 19 percent above the 5-year average. Pump prices for gasoline rose about 10 cents per
gallon in June, but declined by 12 cents in early July. Labor Market Labor markets remain weak and the pool of available workers continues to grow
due to rising unemployment and relocations from other areas of the country, according to contacts.
Layoffs continue at some firms and many are continuing hiring freezes initiated earlier in the year.
Staffing firms said employers were “dragging their feet” as economic uncertainty remains elevated. There
were no reports of wage increases, and many firms were reducing costs by cutting perks such as bonuses
and travel allowances, or freezing 401(k) contributions. Salary freezes remain widespread. Manufacturing Construction-related manufacturers said demand was flat at weak levels,
although there were some reports that public works construction had improved due to school bond
measures and hospital expansions. Both private residential and commercial construction activity remain
depressed, and contacts expect no improvement in the near term. There were scattered reports of layoffs,
though most firms said they had already “right sized” their staff levels. Fabricated metals respondents said
inventories had come down. Primary metals contacts anticipate some bankruptcies that may help alleviate
excess capacity in the industry. Brick producers continued to cut capacity and reported some upcoming
plant closures.

 XI - 2 Most respondents in high-tech manufacturing said production had increased since our last report,
primarily because retailers and manufacturers pared back inventories less sharply than they had earlier in
the year. Demand was reported to be increasing in China, flat in Europe, and flat to slightly up in the U.S.
One respondent noted that orders from state and local governments had been delayed due to budget
shortfalls. Most contacts said that they continue to reduce employment but at a slower pace. Improved
outlooks suggested more confidence that the economy will recover by year-end, and contacts are seeing
some upside potential in their forecasts instead of just down-side risks. Contacts in the paper industry said demand continued to stabilize with orders holding relatively
steady. Employment levels edged down slightly, although most cutbacks occurred earlier in the year.
Outlooks were slightly more optimistic than in the last report, although most contacts don’t expect much
change in demand through year-end. Food producers noted demand was off slightly but they remained
optimistic about their individual business conditions. Most expect stable sales over the next several
months. Demand in the transportation manufacturing sector remains weak overall. Outlooks suggest
continued uncertainty, although several contacts said they believe economic conditions are stabilizing. Petrochemical producers said little had changed over the past six weeks. Export demand
continued to increase due to the cost advantage of domestic natural gas-based products over oil-based
products, but domestic demand remains generally weak and operating rates for most products are low.
Prices for a variety of chemicals rose with the June uptick in oil prices. Refiners operated at a slightly higher percent of capacity utilization over the past six weeks, but
most producers said conditions remained weak overall—gasoline demand remains slightly below year-
earlier levels and both distillates and jet fuel are down 15 percent. Weak demand made it difficult for
refineries to pass through the uptick in crude oil prices, thus profit margins remained low. Retail Sales Retail activity was mixed. Department stores saw continued improvement in sales,
while value-based retailers reported slightly weaker activity. According to contacts, inventories have been
pared down to appropriate levels relative to sales. Consumers remain cost conscious and continue to
substitute less-expensive store brands for name brands. Merchants' outlooks for future sales remain
cautious. Auto dealers said demand was fairly steady at low levels, and most were hopeful the worst was
behind them. Inventories remain high and are exerting downward pressure on prices. Outlooks continue to
be pessimistic, with sales expected to remain low this year. Some are hoping for a turnaround by next
spring, but most expect a long, slow recovery. Services Staffing firms report that orders are trickling in and layoffs have slowed, but overall
activity remains sluggish and erratic. Contract work continues to be more active than direct hires, and
weakness is still widespread with only orders from the healthcare industry showing some stability.

 XI - 3 Demand for legal services has stabilized at low levels according to contacts. Litigation and
bankruptcy work is solid, while demand for real estate and corporate transactions remains soft. Law firms
say that they have pushed out starting dates of new associates by several months and some are also
offering lower starting salaries. Accounting services firms said demand for tax and audit services is
holding up, while that for discretionary services has declined. Both legal and accounting firms expect
business to be weak through year-end. Airlines report that demand remains feeble especially for business travel. Capacity reductions
and job cuts are underway and future bookings suggest continued weakness over the next three months.
Transportation service contacts in small parcel shipping and intermodal trade noted an uptick in demand.
Still volumes remain well below year-ago levels, and the outlook is for continued weakness in the near-
term. Container trade fell further in June, but contacts expect a pickup in the fourth quarter. Railroads
reported growth in June, although cargo volumes remain below year-earlier levels. Shipments of
construction-related materials such as nonmetallic minerals, stone, clay and glass posted the largest
monthly increases. Construction and Real Estate Home sales continue to improve in the lower-priced, entry-level
market as buyers take advantage of the first-time homebuyer tax credit which expires at the end of
November. Despite the pickup, overall sales are well below year-ago levels and contacts say sales
continue to decline in higher-priced segments of the market. While sales prices are slightly below year-
earlier levels they have held up comparatively well to most other areas of the country. Residential
construction activity remains at very low levels, but some contacts expect to see a pickup in entry-level
housing starts in the near term. Commercial leasing activity continues to soften as businesses cut costs. Landlords are reportedly
becoming more aggressive in lease negotiations by offering additional concessions. Vacancy rates are
edging up for office and industrial space, but contacts say the retail market remains the most difficult.
Still, supply and demand fundaments are better in the Eleventh District than in many other areas of the
country, according to respondents. Sales transactions of commercial real estate properties remain almost nonexistent, but there
continue to be reports of interested investors for very good deals. Private nonresidential construction
activity continues to decline, although there were reports of some pickup in public sector activity due to
hospital and school projects. Several contacts noted stimulus money had not led to any additional work.
Outlooks remain uncertain, and many expect no significant pickup in nonresidential activity until late
2010 or 2011. Financial Services Eleventh District loan demand did not change significantly over the past six
weeks, according to financial industry contacts. Business lending was subdued and commercial real estate

 XI - 4
lending was anemic. Home loans remained at low levels and refinancing activity held steady. Contacts
said credit standards remain tight and banks are being more conservative going forward due to uncertainty
over future regulation. Contacts noted concern about commercial real estate loans and expect losses to
become much worse as loans come due in the next several years. So far lenders have deferred the
necessary de-leveraging as property values have declined, waiting to see where values settle before taking
decisive action. Community banks saw strong deposit growth as customers moved funds from larger
institutions to smaller ones as a safe haven, according to contacts. Although respondents say economic
conditions have improved from earlier in the year, outlooks for the financial services sector remain very
uncertain. Energy The number of working rigs in the Eleventh District rose slightly in late June and early
July. The improvement was driven solely by rising oil prices--which hit $70 per barrel in June—as some
producers switched to oil-directed activity. More recently oil prices slipped, and contacts expect projects
to fall back. Natural gas activity continued to fall, and contacts were pessimistic about any near-term
improvement. Despite the small improvement in the rig count, demand for oil services remained quite
weak relative to the large overhang of capacity in the industry. Agriculture Drought continues to stress crops and forage across much of the District. Dry
conditions are most severe in south and central Texas where many fields of cotton, corn and other dryland
crops are not worth harvesting—leading producers to collect insurance. Ranchers in the driest parts of the
District continue to liquidate their cow and cattle herds at a loss. Contacts expressed concern about the
cash flow position of producers because of drought and high feed and input costs.

 XII - 1 TWELFTH DISTRICT–SAN FRANCISCO
Summary Economic activity in the Twelfth District appeared to hold largely steady on net during the
reporting period of June through mid-July, with continued signs of stabilization or improvement in some
sectors. Upward price pressures remained very modest on net, and upward wage pressures generally were
absent. Retail sales remained sluggish, while demand for services weakened further. Manufacturing
activity in the District stayed mired at very low levels on balance, although demand and activity improved
further for manufacturers of information technology products. Sales continued at a solid pace for
agricultural producers, while demand fell further for providers of natural resource products. Housing
sales and construction picked up in some areas but were weak on net, and demand for commercial real
estate continued to fall. Banking contacts reported very weak loan demand and ongoing declines in credit
quality.
Wages and Prices Upward price pressures continued to be very limited on balance during the reporting period. Oil
prices fell from recent highs, and the prices of other commodities remained largely stable. Final prices on
various retail goods were held down by continued discounting, and weak demand led to further price
reductions for assorted services, such as transportation, hotel rooms, and professional services. With few
exceptions, contacts reported that they anticipate prices in their respective industries to stay mostly stable
during the second half of 2009. Upward wage pressures remained virtually nonexistent. Contacts continued to report the use of
wage freezes or cuts, reductions in benefits, and mandatory furloughs as cost-saving measures in various
industries. Hiring remained quite limited, and reports pointed to rising reliance on temporary workers in
some sectors, putting additional downward pressure on wages.
Retail Trade and Services While retail sales remained sluggish overall, reports suggested that they were stable or improved
slightly compared with the previous reporting period. With consumers staying focused on necessities

 XII - 2
such as food and sundries, discount chains and grocers continued to see sales growth. By contrast,
demand remained quite soft for department stores and many smaller retail outlets, and sales of furniture
and household appliances remained anemic. Sales of new automobiles and light trucks continued at
exceptionally low levels. Demand for used automobiles stayed comparatively strong, but contacts noted
that a lack of suitable inventory has held down sales somewhat. Contacts pointed to ongoing job losses
and rising unemployment as the primary factors constraining consumer spending. Demand for services continued to soften on net since the last reporting period. Conditions
remained challenging for restaurants throughout the District, with contacts noting significant revenue
declines and further closures. Likewise, demand for professional and media services continued to be very
weak, resulting in additional layoffs. Demand for transportation services dropped, with reports pointing
to further declines in container traffic at ports. Travel and tourism activity in the District fell further; the
sharpest declines were evident in the business and luxury segments of the market, which reduced airline
traffic. By contrast, providers of health-care services saw a slight increase in patient volumes, reversing
the trend of prior reporting periods.
Manufacturing Manufacturing activity in the District remained feeble on net during the reporting period of June
through mid-July. Metal fabricators continued to experience very weak demand, which held their
capacity utilization rates at extremely low levels. Following the seasonal peak in gasoline demand,
activity at petroleum refineries declined. Production activity by commercial aircraft manufacturers
continued to slow, and their order backlog declined as new aircraft orders were outnumbered by
cancellations of existing orders. By contrast, conditions improved further for manufacturers of
semiconductors and other information technology products, as sales increased and capacity utilization
rates rose significantly. New orders and sales remained strong for food manufacturers.
Agriculture and Resource-related Industries Demand remained solid for agricultural products but stayed somewhat weak for producers of
natural resources. Sales mostly held steady for a variety of crop and livestock products, and contacts

 XII - 3
noted largely stable input costs, with transportation costs reported to be at the lowest levels recorded at
any time during the last three years. Oil extraction activity has expanded in response to earlier increases
in the price of oil, but contacts noted that recent declines in oil prices may reverse this trend. Extraction
of natural gas has been held down by weak demand and falling prices, with activity reportedly near the
lowest levels seen since 2002.
Real Estate and Construction Conditions in District housing markets remained very weak but showed further signs of
improvement, while demand for commercial real estate continued to erode. Sales prices for new and
existing homes fell further in most parts of the District, and home construction activity remained at very
low levels. Combined with low mortgage rates, however, price declines have propelled a sustained
pickup in the pace of home sales in many areas. Demand for commercial real estate fell further, and with
rising vacancy rates, tenants have successfully been requesting rent concessions and other new terms on
existing leases. Construction activity for commercial properties also continued to fall, and contacts noted
that a lack of available credit remained a constraint for construction activity and investment transactions
in some areas.
Financial Institutions District lending activity fell further, and credit conditions remained tight during the reporting
period. Demand for commercial and industrial loans continued to fall, as business owners remained
pessimistic about near-term prospects and continued to restrain their capital spending. Demand for
consumer loans also was characterized as weak on net. Banking contacts reported further deterioration in
credit quality for business and consumer loans, with bankruptcies and foreclosures staying on an upward
trend.

