National Summary The Beige Book ■ October 2017 Overall Economic Activity Reports from all 12 Federal Reserve Districts indicated that economic activity increased in September through early October, with the pace of growth split between modest and moderate. The Richmond, Atlanta, and Dallas Districts reported major disruptions from Hurricanes Harvey and Irma in some areas and sectors, including transportation, ener- gy, and agriculture. Manufacturing activity and nonfinancial services expanded modestly to moderately in most Dis- tricts. Retail spending rose slowly, while vehicle sales and tourism increased in most Districts. Residential construction continued to increase, and growth in commercial construction was up slightly on balance. Low home inventory levels continued to constrain residential sales in many areas, while nonresidential real estate activity increased slightly over- all. Loan demand was generally stable to modestly higher. Growth in the energy sector eased slightly. Agricultural conditions were mixed; while some regions were reporting better-than-expected harvests, low commodity prices contin- ued to weigh down farm incomes. Employment and Wages Employment growth was modest on balance, with most Districts reporting flat to moderate increases. Labor markets were widely described as tight. Many Districts noted that employers were having difficulty finding qualified workers, particularly in construction, transportation, skilled manufacturing, and some health care and service positions. These shortages were also restraining business growth. Firms in several Districts reported that scarcity of labor, particularly related to construction, would be exacerbated by hurricane recovery efforts. Despite widespread labor tightness, the majority of Districts reported only modest to moderate wage pressures. However, some Districts reported stronger wage pressures in certain sectors, including transportation and construction. Growing use of sign-on bonuses, over- time, and other nonwage efforts to attract and retain workers were also reported. Prices Price pressures remained modest since the previous report. Several Districts noted increased manufacturing input costs, but in most cases these weren’t passed through to selling prices. Retail prices generally increased slightly. Transportation, energy, and construction materials prices increased more rapidly, with some Districts citing effects from hurricanes.
Highlights by Federal Reserve District
Boston New York
Economic activity expanded at a modest to moderate The District’s economy has continued to expand at a
pace since August, according to contacts. Respondents moderate pace since the last report, while labor markets
in manufacturing, retailing, and software and IT services have been tight. Input prices continued to rise moderate-
said revenues continued to increase year over year. ly, while selling prices rose more modestly. Housing
Commercial and residential real estate market conditions markets have strengthened somewhat, on balance, but
were mostly unchanged. Looking forward, business commercial real estate markets have been flat.
contacts remained upbeat about the outlook. 1

 National Summary
Philadelphia St. Louis
Overall, economic activity continued at a modest pace of Economic conditions have continued to improve at a
growth. Most sectors, including manufacturing and nonfi- modest pace since our previous report. The District
nancial services, continued to grow modestly. Non-auto continues to see relatively stronger growth in both manu-
retail sales showed slight improvement, and auto sales facturing and banking sectors, although growth in both
grew modestly after declining in the previous period. On sectors has decelerated somewhat since the beginning
balance, employment changed little, while wages and of the year.
prices continued to grow modestly. Minneapolis
Cleveland Economic activity grew modestly. Despite employer
Business activity increased from that of the previous demand, job growth suffered from a lack of available
reporting period, but the overall pace of growth was workers. Tourism saw growth, but consumer spending
moderate. After slowing during the summer months, overall showed some signs of weakness. Home con-
hiring picked up across industries. Input price pressures struction rose, while home sales fell due to tight invento-
outpaced selling price pressures. Retail store spending ries. Commercial construction continued to lag. Manufac-
was flat; auto sales rose. Nonresidential construction turing and mining activity picked up.
remains healthy, but there are signs the industry may be
slowing. Kansas City Economic activity in the Tenth District continued to ex-
Richmond pand modestly, and expectations for future growth were
The economy expanded moderately. Manufacturing and positive in most sectors. Retail sales increased modest-
port activity picked up, retail sales rose, and tourism ly, the manufacturing sector expanded moderately, and
remained strong. Commercial real estate leasing and transportation and wholesale trade firms noted strong
lending activity increased modestly. Labor markets sales. However, growth in the energy sector eased, and
strengthened and wage pressures broadened. Prices the agricultural sector continued to soften.
rose moderately, partially due to supply chain disruptions
from the hurricanes. Dallas Economic activity grew moderately. The impact from
Atlanta Hurricane Harvey varied by location and industry, and
Economic conditions improved modestly since the last most contacts do not expect significant long-term disrup-
report. Tightness in the labor market continued with few tion. The manufacturing sector exhibited notable strength
reports of wage pressures. Input cost pressures were with stronger output, increased hiring, and a pickup in
subdued. Non-auto retailers cited steady sales growth. price inflation. Auto sales surged in response to the loss
Tourism, energy, and agriculture were impacted by of storm-damaged vehicles, and labor market shortages
Hurricane Irma. Home sales and prices increased. New persisted and may become more acute as hurricane
orders and production rose. Credit was available to most recovery continues.
borrowers. San Francisco
Chicago Economic activity continued to expand at a moderate
Growth continued at a modest rate. Employment, busi- pace. Overall price inflation was flat and remained low,
ness spending, and manufacturing increased modestly, while upward wage pressures strengthened somewhat
while consumer spending increased slightly. Construc- and conditions in the labor market tightened further.
tion and real estate activity was little changed, as were Sales of retail goods picked up, and growth in the con-
financial sector conditions. Wages and prices rose mod- sumer and business services sectors remained strong.
estly. Contacts expected the District’s corn and soybean Conditions in the manufacturing sector improved. Activity
harvests to be close to trend. in the residential real estate market was strong. 2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Boston The Beige Book ■ October 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Most business contacts in the First District reported modest to moderate year-over-year revenue increases in recent
weeks. Both retailers and manufacturers cited sales and revenue improvements and most software and information
technology services firms reported strong results. Commercial real estate conditions in the region were reported to be
unchanged from the last report, with office leasing activity steady, albeit at different paces in individual markets. Resi-
dential real estate contacts also cited little change, with low inventories and rising home and condo prices. Most firms
said they were doing only modest net hiring, although some raised wages. Manufacturing firms mentioned price increas-
es somewhat more often than in the recent past. Firms in the District retained a positive outlook.
Employment and Wages Retail and Tourism
Most First District business contacts reported little All responding retailers reported that sales improved
change in regional labor markets. Some retailers report- over the last six weeks. Whereas previous reports some-
ed that they have raised their wage offers somewhat in times cited flat or negative year-over-year results, con-
order to attract new hires. All manufacturing contacts tacts this round reported year-over-year comparable-
said that employment grew in line with expectations; in store gains in the 2 percent to 4 percent range. Consum-
most cases, that meant that employment did not grow by ers reportedly spent on clothing, furniture, and home
much. A tech contact selling online backup solutions was improvement items. Contacts were generally optimistic
aggressively hiring. Other software and IT services that the recent positive sales trend would continue
contacts were hiring in the low single-digit percentages; through the end of the year.
all noted the labor market for technical positions re- The most recent year-over-year results for the tourist
mained tight globally, and particularly in New England. industry run through August: compared to 2016, interna-
Prices tional air travel to Boston increased 11 percent; in total,
Contacts reported some price increases this round. domestic and international air travel to Boston rose 6.2
Retailers indicated that prices for goods remained percent. Hotel occupancy rates for August were 1 per-
steady, though one contact in the hardware industry said cent higher in the Boston area than a year earlier, while
that paint prices had recently gone up 5 percent. Several the average monthly room rate was up almost 3 percent
manufacturing contacts reported price increases. A year-over-year. This strong performance alleviated some
packaging firm recently raised prices 10 percent; they previous concern that a slower trend in tourism during
also reported an 8 percent to 10 percent increase in the first half of the year would continue into the high
material costs over the year, although they said that summer-fall travel season. A tourism contact noted that
materials prices remained well below levels from a few hotels are facing increasing competition from alternative
years ago. A chemical manufacturer said customers lodging sources, which may partly account for a slight
accepted a price increase more easily than expected. A drop in 2017 year-to-date occupancy rates. However,
manufacturer of frozen fish said it had reduced dis- this contact hypothesized that the options offered by non
counts. -traditional lodging services may appeal to leisure A-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Boston
travelers who are more sensitive to price, and that a momentum in Maine. Demand for industrial space re-
traditionally expensive destination like Boston could see mained strong throughout the District, resulting in in-
an overall increase in tourism as a result. creases in sales prices and rental rates compared with last year and a modest amount of new construction
Manufacturing and Related Services activity. Investment sales activity in Greater Boston
Based on an unusually low number of respondents this softened a bit amid a modest decline in foreign capital
round, 60 percent of manufacturing firms reported higher flows, but prices for premier commercial properties in the
sales in line with expectations. One contact reported a area reportedly held steady. Also in Greater Boston,
decline driven mostly by disruptions in its chemical busi- apartment construction slowed amid a perceived over-
ness due to the hurricanes; specifically, a plant deliver- supply of luxury units. Modest increases in loan defaults
ing a key input was destroyed by Hurricane Harvey and were reported for retail centers in Maine and for obsolete
the firm temporarily shifted its sourcing to costlier South office buildings in Connecticut.
American sources. A toy manufacturer also reported
some hurricane-related problems related to plastic sup- Contacts expected that commercial real estate activity
ply. Neither firm expected any long-term effects from the would at least hold steady moving forward. Some noted
Hurricane. A company that produces packaging used by downside risks related to potential further increases in
Internet retailers reported strong sales growth although interest rates and to proposed federal tax changes.
lower than in comparable periods in recent years. None Residential Real Estate
of our contacts reported any revisions to their capital Heading into the fall, residential real estate markets in
expenditure plans. the First District faced continuous upward pressure on
All responding firms reported a positive outlook with only prices. (All six states and the Greater Boston area re-
small revisions from previous rounds. A toy manufactur- ported changes from August 2016 to August 2017.) For
ing contact said they were less optimistic than when they single family homes, five out of the seven reporting
last spoke to us, but still optimistic. areas reported increases in closed sales, while Massa- chusetts and Boston experienced moderate decreases.
Software and Information Technology Services For condos, closed sales were up in New Hampshire
Software and IT services respondents serving the and Rhode Island; other reporting areas experienced no
healthcare and health devices industries continued to change or decreases. Rising median sales prices were
thrive in New England. A healthcare IT firm converted reported throughout the First District. According to a
strong demand for new browser-based offerings into 17 contact in Rhode Island, “Prices have been consistently
percent revenue growth year-over-year. Firms providing on the rise, hitting levels that we haven’t seen since
IT for manufacturing and online backup experienced low- 2007.”
to mid-teen revenue growth year-over-year. Demand
from manufacturing and business customers continued Most areas are still struggling with inventory shortages.
to firm in this quarter. An enterprise software contact Except for Connecticut, all areas reported decreases in
continued to struggle, with revenues down 5 percent inventory for both single family homes and condos.
year-over-year; however, the contact maintained that Contacts expressed different outlooks on inventory, with
their market was healthy and demand was steady – their those in Massachusetts concerned that shortages were
struggles were largely internal. likely to continue.
All contacts were optimistic about the future. The only Looking forward, contacts maintained a positive outlook
potentially negative factor was uncertainty surrounding for substantial demand and stable economic indicators.
the health care landscape in Washington. Respondents said they expected especially strong de- mand for fully renovated houses and for homes on the
Commercial Real Estate lower end of the price spectrum.■
Commercial real estate contacts in the First District
reported that conditions were mostly unchanged since
late August. Office leasing activity was steady across the
District, but still at a very slow pace in Hartford and Port-
land and at a decent pace in Providence and Boston. For more information about District economic conditions visit:
Medical office leasing and related construction gained www.bostonfed.org/regional-economy A-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of New York The Beige Book ■ October 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Economic activity in the Second District continued to expand at a moderate pace in the latest reporting period, and labor
markets have remained steady and tight. Input prices continued to increase moderately, while selling prices were up
only modestly. Manufacturers reported continued brisk growth in activity, and businesses engaged in wholesale trade
and information noted a pickup in activity since the last report. However, contacts in professional & business services
and health & education services generally characterized business activity as flat. Consumer spending was generally
steady since the last report, while consumer confidence edged up. Housing markets have been mixed but, on balance,
a bit stronger, though the high end of the market has been soft. Commercial real estate markets were mostly steady.
New residential construction activity has slowed further, while commercial construction has been steady to weaker.
Finally, banks reported a pickup in demand for home mortgage loans and lower delinquency rates across all loan cate-
gories.
Employment and Wages latest reporting period. One noteworthy example has
The labor market has remained tight. One major employ- been ticket prices at Broadway theaters, which have
ment agency in New York City and another in upstate been running about 12 percent ahead of comparable
New York both described the job market as tight but 2016 levels. On the other hand, prices of used vehicles
steady, with only modest upward pressure on wages in have softened, and some general merchandise retailers
most industries. Businesses continued to report difficulty have recently become more aggressive with price dis-
finding qualified workers. counting and promotional activity. Education & health firms reported moderate increases in prices received,
Business contacts in manufacturing and in most service- while contacts in other industries generally reported that
sector industries reported that they have added jobs on selling prices were steady.
net, though to a modest degree. Similarly, hiring plans
for the months ahead are subdued but positive, on net. Consumer Spending Retail contacts reported that sales have been mixed but,
Overall, wages have continued to rise at a modest pace, on balance, flat in recent weeks. Retailers in upstate
though contacts in education & health, leisure & hospital- New York indicated that both traffic and sales activity
ity, and real estate report somewhat more widespread have been steady and little changed from a year earlier.
wage hikes. A general merchandise chain indicates that sales in the
Prices District have picked up and were ahead of plan but still
Businesses generally indicated that input prices contin- down slightly from a year earlier. Retail inventories were
ued to rise moderately, though contacts in retail, real generally reported to be steady and at satisfactory lev-
estate, and education & health noted more widespread els.
increases. Auto sales, on the other hand, have remained solid.
Selling prices overall continued to rise modestly, though Dealers in upstate New York reported that demand for
contacts in the retail and leisure & hospitality industries new vehicles was fairly robust in September and that
noted increasingly widespread price increases in the sales were up from a year earlier, led by strong leasing B-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of New York
activity. New auto sales across upstate have been near Rental markets have also been mixed. Rents in and
record highs. Used vehicle sales have been steady to around New York City have been rising moderately for
modestly stronger. Vehicle inventories were said to be at smaller apartments but declining for larger and pricier
satisfactory levels. Retail and wholesale credit conditions units. Landlord concessions have leveled off but remain
have remained favorable, according to dealers. fairly widespread.
Consumer confidence in the Middle Atlantic states (NY, Commercial real estate markets have mostly remained
NJ, PA), which was already at a fairly high level, edged steady. The market for office space has softened further
up further in September. in upstate New York, Long Island and Brooklyn but has been steady to slightly stronger in Manhattan and north-
Manufacturing and Distribution ern New Jersey. Vacancy rates for industrial space,
Manufacturers reported continued brisk growth in busi- which had been declining steadily in recent years, have
ness activity in recent weeks. Contacts in the wholesale leveled off in and around New York City, though they
trade sector noted a pickup in growth, while those in the have continued to decline in upstate New York. Industrial
transportation industry continued to report modest rents have continued to rise at a brisk pace throughout
growth. Looking ahead, manufacturers and wholesalers the District.
remained broadly optimistic about the near-term outlook,
while transportation firms have grown considerably less Single-family home construction has been sluggish—
optimistic. particularly for low and mid-priced homes—and appears to have tapered off somewhat since the last report. New
Services multi-family construction starts have picked up further in
Service-sector firms generally reported sluggish growth. northern New Jersey but have remained lackluster
Contacts in both professional & business services and across the rest of the District. Still, there continues to be
education & health services noted that activity was flat, a good amount of ongoing multi-family construction in
on balance, while firms in the information and leisure & progress throughout the District. Similarly, new commer-
hospitality industries noted a pickup in growth. Service cial development—of both office and industrial space—
sector businesses remained mildly optimistic about the has strengthened further in northern New Jersey but has
near-term outlook, except in the professional & business been increasingly sluggish across the rest of the District.
services industry, where contacts were considerably less
upbeat than in recent months. Banking and Finance Small to medium-sized banks in the District reported
Broadway theaters reported that attendance and reve- higher demand for residential mortgages but no change
nues were fairly strong through the first half of Septem- in demand for consumer loans, commercial mortgages,
ber but have tapered off in recent weeks, with attend- or commercial & industrial loans. Bankers also reported
ance falling below comparable 2016 levels. that refinancing activity decreased, on net. Contacts
Real Estate and Construction reported tighter credit standards for commercial mort-
Housing markets across the District have been mixed gages, and unchanged credit standards across all other
but, on balance, moderately stronger. Real estate con- loan categories. Banks reported higher loan spreads
tacts in upstate New York report that sales volume has overall, largely reflecting higher spreads on commercial
been hampered by a lack of inventory, while prices have mortgages. Respondents also reported an increase in
continued to climb, with homes often selling for above the average deposit rate. Bankers reported lower delin-
the asking price. In the suburbs around New York City, quency rates across all loan categories. ■
home sales volume has been strong and prices have
accelerated somewhat, though the high end of the mar-
ket continues to lag, reflecting excess supply. New York
City’s condo and co-op market has strengthened mod-
estly; home prices have continued to rise moderately in
Brooklyn and Queens but have risen only slightly in
Manhattan. Across the city, the high end has continued For more information about District economic conditions visit:
to lag; sellers have become more negotiable and this www.newyorkfed.org/data-and-statistics/regional-data-
has boosted activity somewhat. center/index.html B-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia The Beige Book ■ October 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Aggregate business activity in the Third District continued at a modest pace of growth during the current Beige Book
period. Manufacturing, nonfinancial services, new home sales, and tourism grew modestly; nonresidential construction
and leasing appeared to grow slightly; and nonauto retail sales and new home construction activity exhibited little
change. Auto sales, which had declined modestly in the prior period, showed modest growth in the current period. On
balance, wages and prices continued to grow at a modest pace, but employment flattened out. Overall, firms appear to
anticipate continued modest growth over the next six months, with a larger percentage of firms expecting growth.
Employment and Wages increases in lumber costs. Overall, existing home prices
Employment changed little during the Beige Book period, continued to edge up.
slowing from a modest pace of growth in the prior period. Manufacturing
Reports of net additions to staff were subdued for both On balance, manufacturing activity continued at a mod-
manufacturing and nonmanufacturing firms, and most est pace of growth and showed signs of improvement.
contacts reported no change in staff levels. Average Higher percentages of firms reported increases in new
hours worked decreased over the period for manufactur- orders and shipments compared with the prior period.
ing firms but held steady among nonmanufacturers. Firms in most sectors continued to note gains in both
On balance, wage growth held steady at a modest pace. new orders and shipments, including makers of paper
Staffing firms and other contacts generally reported products, chemicals, fabricated metal products, industrial
steady wage growth and tight labor markets in certain machinery, and electronic products.
areas and for certain occupations. One staffing firm
noted strong order activity and a need to act quickly to fill Generally, manufacturing contacts continued to expect
positions. growth over the next six months. The percentage of firms expecting future increases for general activity rose, while
Prices it held mostly steady for future increases in capital ex-
On balance, prices continued to rise modestly. Among penditures and employment.
manufacturing contacts, more firms reported increases,
particularly in input costs, during the current period than Consumer Spending
the prior period; slightly fewer service-sector contacts Nonauto retail contacts reported little change in sales, on
reported input cost increases. A majority of contacts balance, similar to the prior Beige Book period. An out-
indicated no change in prices paid and received. lets operator reported modest, but slowing, sales growth in August and September, with strength in shoes and
Retailers and banking contacts generally noted no signs jeans as well as housewares and furniture. Convenience
of inflation, while homebuilders reported further store contacts indicated a slight pickup in traffic and C-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia
spending in September, which they attributed more to Real Estate and Construction
favorable weather than to a shift in the sales trend. Homebuilders generally reported little change during the
Auto dealers throughout the region reported modest current period, similar to the previous period. The current
increases in year-over-year sales this period, an im- period covered weeks that are typically slow for traffic
provement from the modest declines during the prior and contract signings; some builders reported no real
period. New Jersey dealers indicated that the pickup in pickup at the end of September following the expected
sales was driven by incentives and wondered how man- slow period.
ufacturers would alter incentives around a spike in de- Brokers in most major Third District housing markets
mand following the recent hurricanes. Although sales continued to report modest growth of existing home
remained generally in line with the high levels seen in sales, but no increase of inventories. One broker noted
2016, dealers continued to face difficulty sustaining general slowing in pending sales and does not expect
profitability. the supply of homes to significantly increase for some
Tourism contacts generally indicated a continuation of time.
modest growth. Strong gains were reported from the Nonresidential real estate contacts continued to report
Poconos and shore locations in Delaware and New slight growth in construction and leasing activity. Con-
Jersey. A New Jersey banking contact indicated that tractors reported that despite a slight softening over the
activity remained strong through the end of September, summer, overall, labor hours have picked up in Septem-
and the shore market had its best year in quite some ber, suggesting more new construction activity. This year
time. Atlantic City’s casino revenues were flat in August has been the second most active year in the past five
relative to the previous year, propped up by Internet years (behind 2016), and contacts expect activity to keep
gaming. A Philadelphia analyst noted stronger-than- up in 2018. ■
expected hotel demand but year-over-year decreases in
room rates because of fewer citywide conventions this
year compared with last year.
Nonfinancial Services
Service-sector firms continued to report modest growth
in general activity since the prior Beige Book period, and
new orders and sales strengthened further, on balance.
One large service-sector firm noted continued improve-
ment in the payment performance of its customers.
Expectations about future growth remained elevated,
with nearly 60 percent of the firms anticipating increased
activity.
Financial Services
Financial firms reported modest growth of overall loan
volumes (excluding credit cards) — similar to the prior
Beige Book period. Loan volumes grew modestly in most
categories, including auto loans and other consumer
loans, while commercial real estate loans grew slightly.
Commercial and industrial loan volumes improved over
the period, posting modest growth following declines
over the prior Beige Book period. Credit card volumes —
which are highly seasonal — continued to grow at a
modest rate over the Beige Book period but outpaced
growth in the comparable year-ago period. In general,
banking contacts tended to describe economic growth as For more information about District economic conditions visit:
slow and steady. www.philadelphiafed.org/research-and-data/regional- economy C-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of  Cleveland  The Beige Book ■ October 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Economic activity in the Fourth District expanded at a moderate pace since our last report. Labor markets expanded
broadly, with employers looking for low- and high-skilled workers. Wage pressures were felt primarily in the construction
and nonfinancial services industries. Upward pressure on prices paid increased across industry sectors; however, pro-
ducers and service providers found it challenging to raise selling prices. Consumer spending at retail establishments
was little changed, while new motor vehicle sales strengthened. Manufacturing output grew at a modest pace overall,
but production at District motor vehicle assembly plants trended lower. Nonfinancial services and freight transport firms
saw moderate gains in activity. Year-to-date residential real estate sales stayed above year-ago levels. Base prices for
new homes rose. Activity in the commercial real estate market remained elevated.
Employment and Wages Prices
The past two months saw a boost in hiring across all Upward pressure on prices paid increased moderately
reporting industries, with the strongest activity seen in across industry sectors since our last report. The share
construction, banking, and nonfinancial services. Many of contacts who cited rising input prices is at its highest
of our contacts reported creating new jobs during the level since early in the second quarter and was most
current cycle, and a majority said that they have re- widespread in the manufacturing and construction sec-
placed departed workers. Greatest demand was for high- tors. Several manufacturers reported rising prices for
skilled workers, such as engineers and those in the ferrous metals, increases which they attributed in part to
building trades, and for low-skilled workers. Demand for domestic trade policies. For the most part, these higher
the latter group was attributed to difficulties in retaining input prices were passed through to the end user. Prices
employees. A building contractor reported that his firm for natural and synthetic fabrics used in apparel manu-
recently hired 15 newly graduated engineers and has facturing remain at a relatively low level. Selling prices
openings for 10 additional entry-level engineers, but the rose slightly overall during the current cycle, and the
firm has difficulty attracting qualified candidates. A cham- share of companies increasing prices for their products
ber of commerce executive said that in order to avoid or services was lower than in the first half of 2017. Sev-
employee turnover, firms are incentivizing workers with eral manufacturers and service providers reported that
bonuses and higher wages. This strategy has resulted in close scrutiny by customers’ procurement officers com-
narrowing the wage gap between low- and middle-wage bined with global competition is making it difficult for
workers, drawing criticism from middle-wage workers. them to raise their selling prices.
Competitive market conditions were cited as the primary
factor for increasing wages, particularly in the construc- Consumer Spending
tion and nonfinancial services sectors. Retailers reported little change in consumer spending during the period. Department store chains are seeming- ly performing better than their specialty counterparts. D-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland   
One department store chain cited increased demand, logs were relatively stable, although three contacts de-
which was qualified by citing an increase in traffic. A fast scribed their backlogs as very strong and higher than
food chain reported much better results because of the projected. That said, contacts reported a downturn in
introduction of new products and technology. An apparel inquires beginning in the third quarter. One general
retailer believes the removal of the border-adjustment contractor observed that companies that do site work are
tax proposal from the federal tax reform debate has seeking jobs. As site preparation is the first phase of a
eliminated an element of uncertainty and risk to the retail project, this situation is a leading indicator of a potential
industry. Year-to-date unit sales through August of new slowdown in construction activity. Another builder said
motor vehicles rose almost 3 percent compared to those that in his industry things just sometimes calm down
of a year ago. Auto dealers were concerned about above unexpectedly for no particular reason. Office vacancy
-normal new-vehicle inventory, which they attributed to rates remain stable, and asking rents are slowly rising. A
an imbalance in supply and demand. strong increase was reported in selling prices for office properties during the first half of 2017 compared to those
Manufacturing of a year ago, while selling prices of industrial properties
Activity in the manufacturing sector picked up from that were stable. Apartment rental increases were moderate.
of the previous reporting period; however, the overall
pace of growth was modest. Several of our contacts Banking
cited confidence in the economy on the part of custom- On balance, business lending grew slightly over the
ers as the primary contributor to a rise in new orders. period. Community bankers were more upbeat in their
Other factors cited as contributing to the expansion in assessment of credit markets than were their counter-
output include a strong housing market and strengthen- parts at large banks. A few large bankers reported that
ing in the oil and gas and primary materials industries. A loan demand is softening because of political uncertainty,
few contacts reported an increase in orders for capital with customers taking a wait-and-see approach. Con-
goods. Demand for consumer packaged products re- sumer lending was largely stable. Fixed-rate purchase
mained below projections. Year-to-date production mortgages were in high demand, while credit card lend-
through August at District auto assembly plants declined ing has softened, a situation one banker attributed to
about 18 percent when compared to that of the same seasonal factors. Bankers reported improving loan quali-
period a year earlier. Much of the decline can be attribut- ty. Loan application standards were little changed other
ed to retooling for three next-generation vehicles. The than some easing in auto lending.
pickup in spending for structures and product develop-
ment that began in the second quarter has weakened. Nonfinancial Services
However, contacts reported increased spending on IT Freight volume generally increased beyond what can be
equipment and services. Many manufacturers remain accounted for by seasonal factors. Two carriers de-
bullish in their outlook for the economy. scribed intermodal as very strong. Other contacts report-
Real Estate and Construction ed increased volume because of a surge in e-commerce
Year-to-date unit sales through August of new and exist- and an expansion in the oil and gas industry. There is
ing single-family homes increased almost 2 percent concern about the industry’s facing capacity constraints
compared to those of a year earlier. The average sales by year’s end because of electronic logging device re-
price rose 5 percent. Demand for new homes is stable quirements and rebuilding from recent hurricanes.
across price points. Upward pressure on base prices is Professional and business services firms reported mod-
increasing because of rising development costs and erate gains in activity during the period. Strongest de-
rising prices for labor and materials. Builders are con- mand was seen by management consulting and IT ser-
cerned that rising base prices may force some first-time vices firms. A majority of our contacts reported that their
buyers out of the market. Year-to-date estimates of customers are bullish on the economy and as a result
single-family construction starts thru August are about 10 are willing to invest more in technology. ■
percent higher compared to those of a year earlier.
Nonresidential construction activity remains at elevated
levels. Property development was broad based except
for retail, for which demand continued to be weak. Back- D-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond The Beige Book ■ October 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
The Fifth District economy grew at a moderate pace since our previous report, with some respondents attributing in-
creased activity to the recent hurricanes. Manufacturing firms continued to report moderate growth in new orders and
shipments. Ports and trucking companies saw robust growth in cargo movements, which was partially due to ships
being rerouted to district ports from areas affected by hurricanes. Retail sales picked up slightly, overall, including those
for building materials to support hurricane relief efforts. Tourism and travel activity remained strong. Commercial leasing
rose modestly, on balance. Loan demand picked up moderately in recent weeks, driven by commercial activity. Services
firms generally indicated moderate revenue growth. Labor demand strengthened moderately and wage pressures
broadened. Prices rose at a moderate pace. Supply chain disruptions drove some input prices higher. commodity prices increased modestly for poultry, eggs,
Employment and Wages wheat, and sugar in recent weeks and were expected to
Labor demand continued to strengthen moderately in rise further as a result of the recent hurricanes. A food
recent weeks and labor markets remained tight. Alt- manufacturer also expressed concerns about future
hough employment agencies reported a slight increase price increases for plastic wrap. Prices continued to rise
in new job openings, that increase was lower than for transportation services, construction materials, and
expected going in to the fall recruiting season. They health insurance premiums. Coal and natural gas prices
continue to anticipate an increase in openings in com- rose moderately.
ing months. Wage increases remained modest, but
more contacts noted increased wage pressures. Exec- Manufacturing
utives reported difficulty finding qualified machinists On balance, manufacturing firms reported moderate
and machine operators, engineers, construction work- growth in new orders and shipments in recent weeks.
ers and contractors, executive assistants, mechanics, Medical equipment producers and furniture manufactur-
and nurses. Trucking companies continued to struggle ers noted a recent pickup in new orders, while metal
finding drivers, despite an increase in drivers’ wages manufacturers continued to see improved business
across the industry. conditions. Additionally, a packaging manufacturer re- ported increased shipments with the opening of its new
Prices fulfillment center. Contacts generally experienced slightly
On balance, prices grew at a moderate pace since our longer vendor lead times. Expectations remained opti-
previous report. According to our most recent surveys, mistic for the next six months, as producers anticipated
manufacturing input prices increased moderately and increases in new orders and shipments.
continued to grow at a faster pace than final goods
prices. Manufacturers said that supply chain disrup- Ports and Transportation
tions from the recent hurricanes drove some raw mate- District ports continued to see robust growth in shipment
rials prices higher, particularly for resins, lumber, and volumes in recent months and expected the strength to
petroleum-based products. Services firms indicated persist in coming months. In August, one District port
that price growth decelerated slightly in recent weeks reported its largest volume ever and another reported its
but remained at a modest level, overall. Agriculture E-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
second-largest on record. Ports continued to see strong- mixed. Office and warehouse construction increased in
er growth in imports than in exports. District ports report- Raleigh and Charlotte, North Carolina and Charleston,
ed seeing increased traffic as incoming ships were re- South Carolina, while in Washington, D.C., retail devel-
routed from hurricane affected areas. Trucking compa- opment slowed somewhat. Multifamily construction
nies also reported strong business conditions, easily continued at a steady pace in large urban markets but
loading trucks to capacity. Firms noted that a portion of was limited elsewhere.
the recent uptick was a result of the recent hurricanes,
as trucks brought relief shipments to affected areas. Banking and Finance Overall, loan demand rose moderately in recent weeks.
Retail, Travel, and Tourism Reports on residential mortgage demand varied by loca-
Retail sales rose slightly, overall, since our previous tion but was generally described as stable to increasing
report. Hardware and construction material providers modestly. On the commercial side, real estate loan de-
saw an increase in demand resulting from the hurricane, mand strengthened moderately, with a notable uptick
which led to higher prices of hardware and lumber. An reported in the greater Raleigh, North Carolina area.
auto dealer in North Carolina reported a slight increase Business lending improved slightly, on balance. Deposits
in sales and customer traffic but noted uncertainties grew moderately as bankers reported growth in both
about how the hurricanes would affect the used vehicle CDs and checking accounts. Short term interest rates
market. Meanwhile, a sporting goods company in West were reported as unchanged to up slightly. Competition
Virginia said that sales continued to slow as some manu- among banks remained aggressive with some reports of
facturers opted to sell directly to customers. extended term durations and non-recourse loans being offered, which led to concerns about softening credit
The Fifth District saw strong tourism in recent months. A standards. Credit quality remained stable at strong lev-
West Virginia resort experienced bookings 12 percent to els. Late payments and delinquency rates trended lower.
15 percent above expectation. A Virginia outdoor adven-
ture center credited strong business to early fall weather Non-Financial Services
and visiting school groups. Coastal North Carolina wit- Services firms indicated moderate revenue growth,
nessed tourism above the seasonal norm, and some according to our most recent surveys, and remained
businesses claimed it was the best season they have optimistic for demand to improve further over the next six
ever had. Some hotels reported an influx of people due months. The strongest reports came from construction
to Hurricane Irma evacuations, but believed tourism related services, including civil engineering, home repair,
might be depressed in the near future as hurricane vic- maintenance, and contractor services. Telecommunica-
tims might be less likely to travel later this year. tion services, amusement facilities, and performing arts studios also indicated a pickup in business in recent
Real Estate and Construction weeks. A marketing firm in Virginia reported an exten-
Residential real estate reports were more mixed com- sion to an existing contract but a lot of competition for
pared to the previous report. Agents in Charlotte, new business. Health care service providers were less
Durham, and Washington D.C. reported modest sales upbeat and one hospital system administrator expressed
growth, but elsewhere most brokers noted a modest concerns over rising insurance costs.
decline in home sales as inventory remained low, partic-
ularly in the $200,000 to $400,000 price range. Home Agriculture and Natural Resources
prices continued to rise modestly. Average days on the Coal production was little changed in recent weeks while
market were unchanged since the previous report, most natural gas production rose slightly. On the whole, agri-
contacts stated that homes were on the market for about culture conditions were unchanged as the growing sea-
60 days. New home sales improved modestly in recent son progressed; however, some farms in South Carolina
weeks. A broker said that new home communities in were flooded by Hurricane Irma. A hardwood producer
more desirable locations continued to have steady sales, reported a moderate rise in export demand in the flooring
while most builders were keeping standing inventory low. market while cabinetry demand softened somewhat. ■
Commercial real estate leasing rose modestly in recent
weeks, as brokers reported more demand in urban loca-
tions. Vacancy rates were unchanged from the previous
report, with most contacts noting steady, low rates
across markets. Rental rates were stable to increasing
modestly. Commercial construction accounts were For more information about District economic conditions visit: www.richmondfed.org/research/regional_economy E-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta The Beige Book ■ October 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Aside from hurricane effects, Sixth District business contacts described economic conditions as improving at a modest
pace from mid-August through September. The outlook among firms remained optimistic with the majority of contacts
expecting growth to be slightly above current levels for the remainder of the year. Most firms continued to cite labor
market tightness, but with few reports of wage pressures. Overall input cost pressures were muted. Most merchants
cited steady sales growth since the previous reporting period; however, automobile dealers continued to note softening
sales. Hospitality, energy, and agriculture contacts reported that activity was greatly affected by Hurricane Irma. Resi-
dential real estate contacts suggested that home sales and prices were slightly ahead of last year's levels. Manufactur-
ers indicated that new orders and production increased. Bankers noted that credit continued to be available.
Employment and Wages Prices
District business contacts reported that job growth was Firms reported that overall input costs were mostly flat.
steady since the previous report, though challenges Although there were reports of limited pricing power,
filling construction, information technology, finance, most businesses have been able to pass along commod-
transportation, and nursing positions persisted. Energy ity input cost increases. The Atlanta Fed’s Business
sector contacts experienced ongoing difficulties filling Inflation Expectations survey showed year-over-year unit
skilled craft positions. Firms continued to develop and costs were up 1.7 percent in September. Survey re-
utilize internal and external training programs to help spondents also remarked that they expect unit costs to
produce qualified workers. Commercial and residential rise 1.9 percent over the next twelve months. Early re-
construction industry contacts further indicated that labor ports from Florida construction contacts indicated that
shortages were restraining growth. Businesses contin- costs, which were already rising, were expected to in-
ued to engage in partnerships with the educational and crease significantly due to hurricane rebuilding efforts.
workforce development community to fill specific industry
or individual firms’ skill gaps. Broadly, businesses contin- Consumer Spending and Tourism
ued to use non-wage mechanisms to attract and retain Overall, retail sales growth was unchanged since the last
workers. While it is early to gauge the impact of Hurri- report, although contacts in Florida reported an increase
canes Harvey and Irma on southeastern labor markets, in retail sales of building materials in preparation for and
some contacts expect the hospitality, retail, and con- following Hurricane Irma. Auto dealers continued to
struction industries to be the most impacted, particularly report a slow-down in momentum of auto sales com-
in Florida and Louisiana. pared to a year ago, though some expect sales to in- crease from replacement activity due to the hurricanes.
Wage growth remained steady, with the exception of
continued wage pressures for some high-skilled posi- Tourism in Florida was heavily impacted by Hurricane
tions and increased reports of rising wages in the con- Irma, although it is too soon to gauge the full extent of
struction industry. Business plans for future compensa- the impact. Hotels and restaurants remained closed due to power outages and downed trees for up to three
tion, on balance, continued to be reported as modest for weeks on the west coast of Florida while the remainder
the coming year. of the state was functional within a week. Reports from F-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
the Florida Keys indicated that some major hotels and with the same period last year as shipments of grain,
resorts may take up to six months to rebuild. Georgia farm products, petroleum and petroleum products, and
and Louisiana experienced an uptick in visitors displaced non-metallic minerals saw double-digit declines. Inter-
from Florida. In spite of hurricane related set backs, modal traffic, however, was up moderately. Trucking
contacts from the tourism and hospitality sector remain contacts cited considerable increases in freight volume
optimistic for the remainder of the year. month-over-month. While Hurricane Irma caused tempo- rary disruptions for Florida transportation contacts, most
Construction and Real Estate reported a return to normalcy within a week after the
Reports from residential real estate contacts in August storm.
signaled modest growth prior to Hurricane Irma’s land-
fall. Builders said construction activity was slightly up Banking and Finance
from the year-ago level. Many brokers and builders Credit remained readily available for most qualified bor-
indicated home sales were up slightly relative to the year rowers, although some small and minority-owned busi-
-ago level. The majority of contacts noted that buyer nesses experienced difficulty obtaining credit. Liquidity
traffic was flat to slightly down and inventory levels were was plentiful, but competition restrained lending at some
down from the year-ago level. Both builders and brokers banks. Auto dealer contacts described a slowdown in
continued to report gains in home prices. Many builders auto lending due to slowing sales and rising interest
expect home sales to be flat over the next three months rates. Credit remained widely available to businesses
relative to the same period last year, while the majority of seeking operating and expansion capital.
brokers anticipate slightly higher sales. Most builders
expect that construction activity will match or marginally Energy
surpass the current pace over the next three months. Contacts indicated that inventories decreased as a result of Hurricanes Harvey and Irma. Retail demand continued
Many commercial real estate contacts reported improve- to put pressure on supply to affected areas, particularly
ments in demand that resulted in rent growth, but cau- those without pipeline access. Refineries resumed pro-
tioned that the rate of improvement varied by metropoli- duction a few days after the hurricane hit. Utility compa-
tan area, submarket, and property type. The majority of nies restored power within two weeks to areas affected
commercial contractors indicated that the pace of non- with the exception of significantly wind damaged loca-
residential construction activity had increased from one tions in the Keys. Overall, contacts reported that utilities
year ago; most reported healthy backlogs. Several re- continued to experience a decline in residential and
ports noted that the pace of multifamily construction industrial sales and commercial sales remained flat.
matched or exceeded the year-ago level. Commercial
construction contacts’ expectations for the pace of non- Agriculture
residential construction were mixed, while their outlook Agriculture conditions across the District were mixed. Al-
for the pace of multifamily construction leveled off. Flori- though damage assessments are still being made,
da contacts suggested that construction activity will Irma’s heavy rains and high winds resulted in significant
increase significantly due to hurricane rebuilding efforts. damage to Florida’s agriculture industry as well as crop damage in parts of Georgia and Alabama. Tennessee’s
Manufacturing corn harvest closely tracked the five-year average. The
Manufacturing contacts indicated that the pace of overall District’s cotton harvest and the soybean harvests in
activity increased since the last report. Purchasing man- Mississippi and Tennessee were mostly on par with five
agers noted a rise in new orders and production levels, year averages. Both the Louisiana and Mississippi rice
as well as an increase in the pace of hiring. Supplier harvests were ahead of their five-year averages. On a
delivery times were reported as getting longer and fin- year-over-year basis, prices paid to farmers in August
ished inventory levels increased somewhat. The overall were up for corn, broilers, and eggs but were down for
outlook was relatively unchanged from the previous cotton, rice, soybeans, and beef. ■
report, with close to half of firms surveyed expecting
higher production over the next six months.
Transportation
Transportation firms reported varying levels of activity
since the previous report. Ports experienced continued
growth in container trade and roll-on/roll-off cargo. Rail-
roads reported that total rail traffic was down compared For more information about District economic conditions visit: www.frbatlanta.org/economy-matters/regional-economics F-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago The Beige Book ■ October 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Growth in economic activity in the Seventh District continued at a modest rate in late August and September, and con-
tacts expected growth to continue at that pace over the next 6 to 12 months. Employment, business spending, and
manufacturing increased modestly, while consumer spending increased slightly. Construction and real estate activity
was little changed, as were financial sector conditions. Wages and prices rose modestly. Contacts expected the Dis-
trict’s corn and soybean harvests to be close to trend, but smaller than last year’s record.
Employment and Wages reported increases in costs for raw materials and em-
Employment growth continued at a modest rate over the ployee benefits. Transportation costs were also higher,
reporting period, and contacts expected it to continue at and one contact attributed some of the increase to ele-
that pace over the next 6 to 12 months. Contacts contin- vated demand related to hurricanes Harvey and Irma.
ued to indicate that the labor market was tight and re- Consumer Spending
ported difficulty filling positions at all skill levels. A con- Consumer spending increased slightly over the reporting
tact in the construction industry indicated that increased period. Non-auto retail sales were mixed, with growth in
demand in the southern US related to hurricanes Harvey the personal services, food and beverage, and discount
and Irma had forced them to rework their production segments balanced by declines at mainstream brick and
schedule due to a lack of workers. Across all industries, mortar stores. Retailers indicated that they expected
hiring was primarily focused on professional and tech- sales during the upcoming holiday season to be slightly
nical, sales, and production workers, with a notable higher than last year. Light vehicle sales strengthened
increase in the number of contacts looking to hire pro- somewhat, and the vehicle mix continued to shift from
duction workers. That said, a staffing firm that primarily cars to light trucks. The pace of used vehicle sales
supplies manufacturers with production workers reported slowed a bit.
little change in billable hours. Wage growth remained
modest overall. Contacts most often cited wage increas- Business Spending
es for professional and technical, sales, and production Growth in business spending remained at modest pace
workers, but there were also reports that growing de- in late August and September. In general, retail invento-
mand for transportation services was pushing up wages ries were at desired levels, though stocks remained high
for truckers. for cars and low for light trucks, particularly crossovers. Manufacturing inventories were at comfortable levels
Prices overall, though steel service center inventories were
Prices again rose modestly overall in late August and lower than historical norms. Growth in capital spending
September. Retail prices were little changed for most remained at a modest rate, and contacts expected
categories, though there continued to be reports of rising growth to continue at that pace for the next 6 to 12
prices for older used cars. A number of contacts again G-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago
months. Outlays were primarily for replacing industrial Consumer loan demand increased slightly. Demand for
and IT equipment and for renovating structures, though both home and auto loans picked up and quality re-
there was an increase in the number of contacts report- mained good. That said, an auto dealer indicated that
ing spending for expansion. Demand for residential, credit continued to tighten for buyers of new cars with
commercial, and industrial electricity was flat. low credit scores.
Construction and Real Estate Agriculture
Construction and real estate activity was little changed Contacts expected both the corn and soybean harvests
over the reporting period. Residential construction in- to be close to trend but smaller than last year’s record.
creased slightly, as greater demand for starter homes On balance, crop conditions worsened in late August
led more builders to enter the market. There were re- and September as drought conditions spread in the
ports that in some areas newly built starter homes were District. In addition, suboptimal weather conditions earli-
receiving multiple offers and closing well above the er in the year meant crops were less mature than normal
original asking price because of limited availability. Over- and that the harvest started later than usual. Corn prices
all, home sales edged lower as tight inventories con- moved down (but were still higher than a year ago),
strained sales in the low-end segment and weak demand while soybean prices were little changed (and slightly
hurt sales in the high-end segment. Home prices were lower than a year ago). With the exception of eggs,
up slightly overall, but growth varied by price level: prices livestock and dairy prices were down as supplies stayed
increased noticeably for homes under $250,000, mod- plentiful. New hog processing plants in Iowa and Michi-
estly for homes between $250,000 and $500,000, and gan were ramping up more slowly than planned because
were down slightly for homes over $500,000. Nonresi- labor was in short supply. Prospects for agriculture in-
dential construction edged lower across most market comes declined overall during the reporting period. ■
segments. Commercial real estate activity remained
strong, and edged up further. Commercial rents in-
creased slightly, vacancy rates moved lower, and the
availability of sublease space changed little.
Manufacturing
Growth in manufacturing production generally continued
at a modest pace in late August and September. Growth
did pick up for some industries: Improved international
conditions led to solid gains for heavy machinery produc-
ers; hurricanes Harvey and Irma boosted sales of con-
struction materials and RVs (FEMA trailers are modified
RVs); and heavy truck manufacturers and producers of
packing materials reported strong increases in demand.
Contacts in most other industries reported little change in
conditions. Activity in the auto sector was flat. Demand
for steel continued to grow slowly, though producers
expected that improved international demand and tight
inventories at service centers would soon lead to more
orders. Specialty metals manufacturers reported modest
increases overall, and highlighted improved demand
from the aerospace and defense sectors.
Banking and Finance
Financial conditions were little changed on balance over
the reporting period. Market participants noted that equi-
ty prices remained high and volatility remained low.
Business loan demand increased slightly, with growth
coming primarily from higher capital equipment and real
estate spending by the manufacturing and construction
sectors. Contacts again indicated that robust competition For more information about District economic conditions visit:
was creating pressure to lower rates and loosen terms. www.chicagofed.org/cfsbc G-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis The Beige Book ■ October 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Reports from contacts suggest economic conditions have continued to improve at a modest pace since our previous
report. Labor markets remain tight, with positions remaining unfilled; employment was little changed. Contacts report
moderate growth in wages, while broader price pressures remain modest. Reports on consumer spending improved
since our previous report, although reports from auto dealers remain mixed. The District continues to see relatively
stronger growth in both the manufacturing and banking sectors, although growth in both sectors has decelerated some-
what since the beginning of the year.
Employment and Wages slightly, and a contact in Little Rock reported that wood
Anecdotal evidence suggests little change in employ- product prices continued to decrease modestly. Due to
ment since the previous report. Contacts continued to low water levels, barge rates along the Mississippi and
report difficulties finding experienced or qualified employ- Illinois rivers increased significantly.
ees. A construction contact in Little Rock noted that high Energy prices increased moderately since the previous
levels of real estate activity have created a shortage of report. In Illinois and Kentucky, coal prices rose modest-
skilled workers, and a transportation contact reported ly. In Arkansas, Mississippi, and Tennessee, Hurricane
that the shortage of truck drivers worsened. Several Harvey caused relatively strong increases in gasoline
contacts reported that potential employees’ lack of trans- prices compared with national prices. Cotton, rice, soy-
portation to and from work has posed a challenge to bean, and wheat prices increased moderately, while
hiring. sorghum prices were flat and corn prices decreased
Contacts have reported moderate growth in wages since modestly.
the previous report. A contact in Little Rock reported Consumer Spending
increasing compensation as part of an effort to retain Reports from general retailers, auto dealers, and hotel-
staff, while another contact reported moderate increases iers indicate consumer spending has grown modestly
for both hourly and salaried employees throughout the since our previous report. Although August’s real sales
area. tax collections decreased in Arkansas and Kentucky
Prices relative to a year ago, they increased in Missouri and
Price pressures have increased modestly since the Tennessee. Consumer confidence increased substantial-
previous report. Residential real estate prices continued ly in West Tennessee, as households indicated their
to rise moderately throughout most of the District. Non- willingness to spend more in the next few months rela-
residential real estate price pressures were mixed: A tive to a year ago. Reports from auto dealers were
contact in Little Rock reported a decrease in industrial mixed; although some dealers in the Memphis area
rents, while a contact in Memphis reported an increase. indicated strong sales, dealers in Little Rock noted slow-
Construction costs declined slightly. Steel prices fell er foot traffic and are less optimistic that 2017 sales will H-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
exceed last year’s. Hospitality contacts in Missouri and Commercial real estate activity was unchanged from the
Tennessee indicated that business activity has increased previous report. Contacts largely indicated that demand
and exceeded expectations since our previous report. remained steady for most property types. A central Ar- kansas banker reported strong demand for commercial
Manufacturing real estate loans.
Manufacturing activity has increased moderately since
our previous report. Manufacturing production, invento- Commercial construction activity was mixed. August
ries, and employment growth were all stronger than one nonresidential construction starts dropped slightly within
month earlier in both Arkansas and Missouri. However, the District relative to the previous month, and multifami-
new manufacturing orders grew at a slower rate in both ly permits were below levels from a year ago. However,
states. local contacts generally reported a robust level of new multifamily construction underway or being planned, and
Contacts in several industries across the District report- several Memphis contractors continued to report opti-
ed increased sales, including industrial pipe manufactur- mism regarding future projects.
ing and plastic manufacturing. However, a contact in the
plastic product manufacturing industry noted a drop in Banking and Finance
requests for quotes from new customers. A contact in Lending activity in the Eighth District improved moder-
the wood product manufacturing industry reported that ately. According to a survey of 84 small and mid-sized
production has outpaced demand. District banks, outstanding loan volumes grew by 8 percent relative to year-ago levels. Loan growth in the
Nonfinancial Services District has been gradually slowing since the start of
The nonfinancial services sector has expanded at a 2017, but it continues to exceed the national rate. Com-
modest pace since the previous report. Firms that pro- mercial and industrial loan growth has stabilized at 9
vide transportation and logistics services are reporting percent after decelerating through the first half of 2017.
plans to increase employment and renovate existing Meanwhile, consumer and commercial real estate lend-
structures. Demand for commercial trucking from firms ing grew the fastest among all loan categories, rising by
headquartered in the District is up from Hurricane Har- 11 and 10 percent, respectively.
vey relief efforts and expected to remain elevated during
rebuilding efforts. Several firms that provide professional Agriculture and Natural Resources
business and information services are reporting plans to District agriculture conditions improved modestly from
expand and increase employment. Reports from the previous reporting period. Reports from farmers
healthcare firms remain mixed. Employers continue to indicated that they have been impressed by their harvest
streamline operations in an uncertain environment, with numbers so far. Production and yield forecasts improved
one major employer shifting jobs from low-profit to high- from August to September for corn, cotton, and soy-
profit areas. beans. For rice expected yields ticked up from August to September, while expected production ticked down after
Real Estate and Construction downward revisions to rice acreage estimates. Relative
There was little change in residential real estate activity to 2016, District cotton and soybean production levels
since the previous report. Seasonally adjusted home were projected to be higher, while those for corn and rice
sales for August ticked up slightly relative to the previous were projected to be lower.
month across the District’s four major MSAs, and year-to
-date sales remained in line with those from a year ago. Natural resource extraction declined slightly from July to
Local real estate contacts continued to report that signifi- August, with seasonally adjusted coal production declin-
cant shortages in inventory have hindered sales, particu- ing 3 percent. However, August production was 10 per-
larly for median-priced housing. cent above the level from one year ago. ■
Residential construction activity improved slightly. Au-
gust permit activity within District MSAs increased mod-
estly relative to the previous month. Local contacts re-
ported that lot scarcity and a shortage of labor continue
to limit new construction. For more information about District economic conditions, visit: www.research.stlouisfed.org/regecon/ H-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis The Beige Book ■ October 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
The Ninth District economy grew modestly since the last report. Employment fell since the last report, but hiring demand
remained strong, held back by tight labor markets. Wage pressures were moderate, while price pressures were modest
overall. The District economy showed growth in services, manufacturing, commercial real estate, residential construc-
tion, and energy. Consumer spending saw only slight growth, and commercial construction was flat; agriculture im-
proved, but remained weak overall, and residential real estate slowed.
Employment and Wages Wages rose moderately since the last report, with some
Employment fell since the last report, but hiring demand mixed signals, but overall showing signs of
remained strong, held back by tight labor markets. strengthening. A staffing contact said one client has
Seasonally adjusted August employment levels fell raised starting wages three times since June. A South
across the District, continuing an up-and-down pattern in Dakota construction contact estimated wage increases
recent months. However, a staffing contact in of 3 percent to 5 percent over last year and expected
southeastern Minnesota said hiring “is still robust. I have similar increases in the coming year. A Minnesota labor
no issue getting clients. If I had 100 people, I could put union source in the services industry reported increases
them all to work.” A Minnesota labor contact said worker of 3 percent “in most of our units.” In a survey by the
demand in hospitality was “stronger than usual going into Minneapolis Fed, 40 percent of South Dakota retailers
the winter season” for both union and nonunion reported wages rising between 1 percent and 3 percent
businesses. A large Minnesota entertainment and over the past year, but with equal percentages above
hospitality firm said it had 150 job openings on a steady and below those levels. Said a Minnesota workforce
basis at two locations. A Montana source said booth contact, “I get very mixed signals. I hear that wages are
registrations at recent career fairs were up 7 percent, going up, but when I press, I still see a lot of wage
“indicating more employers are looking to hire.” Two increases in the 2 percent to 3 percent range.”
September business conditions indexes showed strong
hiring sentiment in Minnesota and North Dakota, but Prices
some softness in South Dakota. In Montana, the number Price pressures remained modest since the last report.
of job seekers visiting state workforce centers in After spiking in late August, retail fuel prices in District
September fell compared with August figures, while the states decreased over the following month, but remained
number of open job positions grew. A September survey slightly higher than the previous reporting period. A
of South Dakota retailers by the Minneapolis Fed found survey of Minneapolis-St. Paul home builders indicated
that more than half were hiring, but most often to fill increased price expectations for building materials and
turnover. Contacts in hospitality and construction also land. Prices received by farmers for corn, wheat, hay,
noted an increase in overtime for workers. milk, hogs, and eggs increased in August compared with a year earlier; prices for soybeans, cattle, chickens, and turkeys decreased. I-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis
Consumer Spending Limited September data on residential construction
Consumer spending rose slightly overall since the last showed activity was higher in Minneapolis-St. Paul and
report. Automotive sales were reportedly solid, and a Billings compared with a year ago, but slightly lower in
Minnesota dealer announced a major expansion of Sioux Falls. August permitting was generally flat to lower
dealerships in Minneapolis-St. Paul and nearby across the District compared with a year ago, with the
Wisconsin markets. Despite recent closures, especially notable exception of Minneapolis-St. Paul.
among legacy retailers, new retail stores continued to Commercial real estate grew modestly since the last
open. Tourism also saw growth. Among the 14 national report. In Minneapolis-St. Paul, office vacancies have
parks in District states with significant summer risen slightly, while retail vacancies fell slightly after
attendance, total August visitors were up 8 percent over rising in previous quarters. Most metros continue to see
a year earlier, to more than 3 million—the third multifamily development in light of low vacancy rates.
consecutive month of a visitor increase of at least 5 Minneapolis-St. Paul maintained one of the tightest
percent. August hotel demand in Minnesota increased by vacancy rates in the nation despite 5,000 units coming
1 percent from a year earlier, with Rochester and online in the past 12 months. Residential real estate
Minneapolis-St. Paul growing by 4 percent and 2 slowed, with closed sales lower across the District.
percent, respectively. Thanks to low inventories, median prices were
However, there were some signs of softness. A universally higher, including a 14 percent year-over-year
September survey of North Dakota and South Dakota increase in Bozeman, Mont. A contact there said real
retailers by the Minneapolis Fed showed generally softer estate agents “are not seeing any slowdown in buying.
sales over the previous two months compared with the They feel it’s only a matter of time before the markets
same period a year earlier. Gross sales were softer this slow, simply because of the lack of available inventory.
summer in Wisconsin and South Dakota compared with Manufacturing
last year, and the total August handle at South Dakota District manufacturing activity increased moderately
casinos fell by about 3 percent. since the last report. An index of manufacturing
Services conditions produced by Creighton University indicated
Activity in the professional services industry increased increased activity in September compared with a month
moderately since the last report. A biotech firm broke earlier in Minnesota and North Dakota; the index for
ground on a large research facility in Minnesota. A South Dakota indicated a slight decrease in activity.
consultant noted a growing backlog of work related to Several firms noted an increase in demand for
merger and acquisition activity in the second half of the equipment related to oil and gas extraction. A lubrication
year. Freight rail contacts reported that shipments had equipment producer reported an increase in orders from
grown slightly but consistently during this year. August the military. A producer of hydraulic cylinders said sales
shipments from Great Lakes ports increased from a year were up over last year and current orders were solid.
earlier; iron ore shipments increased 10 percent. Agriculture, Energy, and Natural Resources
Construction and Real Estate District agricultural conditions improved slightly since the
Commercial construction was flat since the last report. previous report, but remained weak overall. Though
An industry database of construction spending showed drought conditions eased, large areas of Montana and
no growth over the latter half of summer compared with the Dakotas remained exceptionally dry, and much of the
a year earlier. Industry tracking of new construction damage to crops had already been done. Early
projects showed lower levels over the most recent six- indications were that the wheat harvest might be better
week period (end of September) compared with a year than expected in these areas, but still well below
earlier. A South Dakota contact said construction there average. Areas not affected by drought were generally
was “a little slower” compared with last year, especially expecting good yields, but saw harvests delayed by
outside of metro areas. Limited figures on commercial rains. Activity in the energy and mining sectors increased
construction permits in September showed activity was slightly since the last report. District oil and gas
higher in Sioux Falls, S.D., but considerably lower in exploration as of late-September was roughly
Billings, Mont. August permit figures were mixed. unchanged from a month earlier. Output at District iron
Residential construction was up modestly overall. ore mines was up substantially from a year earlier. ■ I-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City The Beige Book ■ October 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Economic activity in the Tenth District continued to increase at a modest pace in September, and contacts in most sec-
tors expected gains in the coming months. Retail, restaurant, and tourism activity picked up since the last survey, but
auto sales fell modestly. The manufacturing sector continued to increase moderately, and capital spending plans were
positive. Contacts in the transportation and wholesale trade sectors noted a strong increase in sales, while professional
and high-tech firms reported a modest rise in overall activity. Residential real estate activity was mostly flat, with steady
home sales and construction activity. The Tenth District’s commercial real estate sector continued to expand modestly.
Banking respondents reported steady overall loan demand, unchanged loan quality and credit standards, and stable
deposit levels. Growth in energy activity in the Tenth District eased since the last survey period, and abundant supply in
the natural gas sector continued to weigh on prices and profitability. The agricultural sector continued to soften in the
District since the last survey.
Employment and Wages and expectations were for steady selling prices moving
District employment and employee hours continued to forward. Transportation input prices were up strongly,
rise at a slight pace in September, and contacts ex- and transportation selling prices edged up. Prices in the
pected additional improvement in the months ahead. construction sector rose moderately, with continued
Respondents in the manufacturing, energy, wholesale moderate increases anticipated in the coming months.
trade, professional services, real estate, health services Manufacturers reported modest rises in prices for fin-
and restaurant sectors noted an increase in both em- ished goods, while raw material costs continued to edge
ployment and employee hours compared to the previous higher. Manufacturers expected moderate growth in both
survey period, while respondents in the retail trade, auto finished goods and raw material prices in the next few
sales, and tourism and hospitality sectors noted a de- months.
crease. Expectations for employment remained positive Consumer Spending
in all sectors except the auto sales and tourism sectors. Overall consumer spending activity was mixed as retail
The majority of respondents noted it was difficult to find sales, restaurant sales, and tourism activity increased,
qualified workers, and several contacts noted a shortage while auto sales fell further. Consumer spending was
of commercial drivers, salespeople, and services work- expected to increase slightly in the months ahead. Retail
ers. sales improved modestly in September and were similar
Wages rose modestly in most sectors, and moderate to year-ago levels. Several retailers noted an increase in
wage growth was anticipated in the coming months. sales for upholstery and furniture items, while luxury products sold poorly. Contacts in the retail sector antici-
Prices pated sales to rise moderately in the next few months,
Input prices rose modestly in most sectors compared to and inventory levels were expected to increase slightly.
the previous survey period, while selling prices were Auto sales continued to fall at a moderate pace and were
either flat or slightly higher. In the retail sector, both input below year-ago levels. Dealer contacts anticipated a
and selling prices increased slightly, but at a slower pace further modest slowdown in sales moving forward, and
than in the prior survey. Restaurant contacts reported auto inventories were expected to rise slightly. Restau-
modest rises in input prices and steady selling prices, rant sales increased slightly since the last survey, and J-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City
were well above year-ago levels. District tourism activity Banking
increased slightly, but remained lower than a year ago. Bankers reported steady overall loan demand since the
Tourism contacts expected activity to improve further this previous survey, with a majority of respondents indicat-
fall. ing stable demand for commercial and industrial, com- mercial real estate, residential real estate and consumer
Manufacturing and Other Business Activity installment loans. Most bankers reported that loan quali-
Manufacturing activity continued to expand at a moder- ty was unchanged compared to a year ago, and ex-
ate pace in September, and the majority of other busi- pected loan quality to remain essentially the same over
ness contacts reported moderate sales increases. Manu- the next six months. Credit standards also remained
facturers reported sustained moderate growth in produc- largely unchanged in all major loan categories. Finally, a
tion and shipments, particularly for chemicals, plastics, majority of respondents reported stable deposit levels.
and machinery products. New orders and order backlogs
grew at a modest pace, and activity was considerably Energy
higher than a year ago. Manufacturers’ capital spending Growth in Tenth District energy activity eased since the
plans remained favorable, and firms were increasingly last survey period, while expectations for future activity
optimistic about future activity. remained solid. The number of active oil and gas drilling
Outside of manufacturing, transportation and wholesale rigs was little changed across the District, and contacts
trade firms reported strong sales increases, while profes- expected them to stay near current levels in the coming
sional and high tech firms noted a more modest rise in months. Respondents projected a modest increase in
activity. All firms expected sales to rise considerably in future oil prices and hence higher profits over the next
the next six months. Professional, high-tech, and whole- six months. The abundant supply of natural gas was
sale trade firms reported strong capital spending plans, expected to keep weighing on prices and profitability in
while transportation firms anticipated a slight decrease in that sector. Firms surveyed expected Hurricane Harvey
capital expenditures heading forward. to have low to medium impacts on the oil and gas indus- try. Contacts, on average, estimated the effects on off-
Real Estate and Construction shore production, trade, and refineries to last five, six
District real estate activity continued to rise at a slight and nine weeks, respectively, from the start of Harvey.
pace as residential real estate conditions were flat and
commercial real estate activity expanded modestly. Agriculture
Residential home sales were steady since the previous The District farm economy continued to soften, but
survey, and were moderately above year-ago levels. showed some signs of stabilization since the previous
Sales of low- and medium-priced homes continued to reporting period. Farm income in the District was lower
outpace sales of higher-priced homes. Residential home than a year ago, but some agricultural commodity prices
prices increased modestly, while residential inventories rebounded slightly. Soybean prices increased modestly
decreased. Residential construction activity was flat, with from the previous reporting period, and yield expecta-
no change in sales of construction supplies, new home tions remained strong. Wheat prices remained flat, but
starts, and traffic of potential home buyers. Activity in the were higher than a year ago. Corn prices declined slight-
commercial real estate sector continued to expand at a ly amid strong production expectations, but District con-
modest pace, as absorption, completions, construction tacts expected strong crop yields to offset some weak-
underway, sales, and prices rose, while vacancy rates ness in prices. Cattle and hog prices declined slightly
declined. Commercial real estate activity was expected from the previous reporting period, but also remained
to continue to increase at a modest pace in the coming higher than a year ago. Farmland values declined mod-
months. estly in some regions, but generally remained steady in areas with strong crop production. ■ For more information about District economic conditions visit: www.KansasCityFed.org/Research/RegionalEconomy J-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas The Beige Book ■ October 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
The Eleventh District economy continued to expand at a moderate pace over the past six weeks, and most contacts do
not expect significant long-term disruption due to Hurricane Harvey. Manufacturing output strengthened, and activity in
nonfinancial services increased. Retail sales growth continued to accelerate, with a surge in auto sales to replace vehi-
cles damaged by the hurricane. Homes sales weakened during the reporting period and prices were flat. Growth in the
financial services and energy sectors continued but at a slower pace, and crop conditions remained mostly favorable.
Employment, wages and prices increased, particularly in manufacturing. Outlooks remained positive overall.
Employment and Wages Some builders were offering discounts and/or incentives
Overall employment rose, and upward wage pressure to entice buyers, particularly on inventory homes. Gaso-
persisted. Hiring picked up in manufacturing, continued line and diesel prices rose over the reporting period, as
at about the same modest pace in services, and abated did oil prices.
slightly in the energy sector. Reports of labor shortages Manufacturing
persisted, spanning most industries. Some manufactur- Robust expansion in the manufacturing sector continued,
ers said the difficulty finding workers was impeding their despite some disruption among Texas Gulf Coast pro-
growth, and some services firms said it was driving up ducers in the wake of Hurricane Harvey. Output growth
overtime costs. More than a quarter of firms expect that picked up further for durable goods in September, led by
the impact of Hurricane Harvey will make finding and increases in computer and electronic product manufac-
hiring workers more difficult over the next six months. In turing. Fabricated metals production rebounded, and
construction, builders were concerned that once post- output among energy-related firms overall continued to
hurricane repair and rebuilding work begins, there likely exhibit strength. Meanwhile, nondurable goods produc-
will be skilled-worker shortages and increases in labor tion slowed. A majority of chemical producers noted
costs. Other contacts noted that they also pull from a production held steady or declined over the reporting
labor pool that is likely to be in higher demand in the period, with a number of executives saying Hurricane
aftermath of the storm. Harvey had a negative impact on logistics like transpor-
Prices tation and availability of raw materials. Refinery capacity
Selling prices increased at the same or faster pace over hampered by the storm was ramping back up quickly,
the past six weeks, and contacts noted upward pressure with little damage to infrastructure. While it may take
on input costs. Prices and costs rose at a faster clip in some time for supply chains to recover, the storm’s
the manufacturing and energy sectors, while upward impact on the refining and petrochemical industry are
pressure was largely unchanged on the services side. projected to be transitory. For Texas manufacturing
New home prices were mostly flat, but there is continued overall, outlooks were positive and more optimistic than
pushback from buyers on pricing at the higher end. during the prior reporting period. K-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
Retail Sales family homes was reported to be much more extensive
Retail sales growth continued to accelerate despite compared with other property types. Contacts expect
Hurricane Harvey, according to firms surveyed three new home starts and closings in Houston to be behind
weeks after the storm. Nearly two-thirds of stores along schedule for the remainder of the year.
the Texas Gulf Coast said they were negatively impacted Apartment demand was generally disappointing in the
by the hurricane, and on average those stores were shut third quarter, following a solid second quarter. Rent
down for about four days and experienced a reduction in growth slowed and was below average in some large
revenue for about 10 days. Auto sales surged, partly due metros. In Houston, however, apartment leasing activity
to increased demand for replacement vehicles after the picked up, occupancy rose and rent concessions have
storm. An auto dealer in Houston said sales were incred- diminished following Hurricane Harvey. The office mar-
ibly strong, noting that several hundred thousand vehi- ket was generally characterized as solid in DFW and
cles had been flooded, and another dealer expects ele- San Antonio, but still weak in Houston.
vated demand to last about six months. For the broader
retail sector in Houston, rebuilding efforts were fueling a Financial Services
rise in retail sales and demand for warehouses in the Loan demand continued to increase over the past six
area from building supply companies. Outlooks for busi- weeks, albeit at a more sluggish pace than during the
ness in general were quite positive, an improvement prior period. Growth was led by commercial real estate
from the mixed outlooks during the prior reporting period. loans, where volumes continued to rise at a moderate pace. Volume growth abated for commercial and indus-
Nonfinancial Services trial loans as well as for residential real estate loans, and
Demand for nonfinancial services continued to expand consumer loan volumes declined slightly. Credit stand-
moderately over the past six weeks. There were some ards and terms tightened. Core deposit volumes grew
reports of Hurricane Harvey disrupting business, with again and net interest margins continued to increase.
those contacts noting the impact lasted one to two Outlooks in the financial sector remained optimistic.
weeks on average. About a third of firms expect a net
negative impact on revenues over the next six months Energy
from the storm, while nearly half expect no change on Energy activity continued to expand, but at a slightly
net and the balance anticipate an increase. Some staff- slower clip in the third quarter. Drilling activity in the
ing services contacts have seen a rise in demand for Eagle Ford Shale and offshore has resumed normal
accounting and data entry positions related to the hurri- operations after the hurricane. Overall growth in oil and
cane damages, as well as for call center employees and gas production continued, but oilfield services firms
insurance adjusters. Staffing contacts generally think noted weaker demand growth. Drilling activity is ex-
business activity will return to normal (pre-hurricane) by pected to decline slightly by the end of 2017, and de-
year’s end, and an oil and gas staffing firm noted that mand for oilfield services is softening outside of the
“things are close to normal again” in Houston already. Permian Basin. However, six-month outlooks for 2018 were more optimistic relative to the last reporting period,
Strength in the nonfinancial services sector was led by and uncertainty has moderated.
professional and technical services, with firms generally
noting stronger revenue gains over the past six weeks, Agriculture
as well as transportation services. The healthcare indus- Crop conditions remained favorable, although Hurricane
try remained rather weak, with contacts saying they were Harvey hampered agriculture in the Coastal Plains. The
continuing to struggle with lower demand and rising extent of the impact is not yet known, but some livestock
costs. Leisure and hospitality also exhibited weakness were lost and a small portion of the Texas cotton crop
over the past six weeks, particularly along the Gulf Coast was damaged. Some rice and soybeans were also af-
and Mexican border. fected, but likely minimally. Overall, grain production was strong, with particularly robust yields in Northeast Texas.
Construction and Real Estate There is good moisture for planting winter wheat, but
Overall, home sales weakened during the reporting while wheat prices are higher than a year ago they are
period. However, contacts in Austin and Dallas–Fort still generally below breakeven levels. Agricultural pro-
Worth (DFW) noted continued strength in sales of low- to ducers remain concerned about low crop prices, NAFTA
mid-priced homes. In Houston, storm damage to single- negotiations, and the configuration of the next farm bill. ■ K-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco The Beige Book ■ October 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Economic activity in the Twelfth District continued to expand at a moderate pace during the reporting period of mid-
August through September. Overall price inflation was flat and remained low, while upward wage pressures strength-
ened somewhat, and labor market conditions tightened further. Sales of retail goods picked up, and growth in consumer
and business services remained strong. Conditions in the manufacturing sector improved, while activity in the agricul-
ture sector was flat. Contacts reported continued strong activity in residential real estate markets, and conditions in the
commercial real estate sector remained solid. Lending activity grew at a moderate pace.
Employment and Wages Retail Trade and Services
Conditions in the labor market tightened further. Wage Retail sales picked up over the reporting period. Contin-
gains increased in a few sectors. Increased competition ued improvement in economic conditions and favorable
for warehouse employees in the retail industry boosted weather nudged up sales of beverage products. Sales in
wages. One contact at a major logistics and delivery the retail grocery industry were unchanged from their
company noted rising demand for manual labor, with solid pace in the previous period. Contacts in the indus-
these jobs increasingly being filled by workers wanting to try reported that online sales continued to more than
supplement their income with additional part-time hours. offset declines at traditional brick-and-mortar outlets.
Continued elevated demand for skilled IT professionals One lender with a large national presence in the retail
in the technology, financial services, and health-care sector noted that same store sales at small merchants
industries supported strong wage growth. Shortages of rebounded after slight declines following recent hurri-
health-care workers in Eastern Washington worsened. canes. Growth in demand for legacy computing products
Labor shortages and increased unit labor costs in the slowed slightly to a moderate pace. Contacts expect
agriculture sector fueled investments in automated tech- these markets to experience a more modest growth
nology. In the retail grocery industry, the continued shift environment in the future.
of consumer preferences towards online purchases Activity in consumer and business services generally
further reduced labor demand. grew at a strong pace. Accelerating investments in cloud
Prices computing and data analytics in the technology and
Overall, price inflation was flat and remained low during financial services industries boosted sales at large tech-
the reporting period. Stronger demand for manufactured nology companies. Additionally, demand for cybersecuri-
steel products boosted price growth relative to the same ty services is expected to be a major source of growth
period last year. In the restaurant industry, contacts for the technology industry over the medium-term. Boost-
reported that rising input costs pushed up final sales ed by e-commerce sales, transport volumes expanded at
prices. Elevated inventory levels pushed down prices for a robust pace. Contacts noted that improving economic
some agricultural commodities. Economies of scale conditions fueled demand for high-end shipping services
continued to put downward pressure on prices of cloud in particular. Demand for entertainment services was
computing and data storage services. strong, and one contact reported that technological gains and favorable tax conditions spurred investment. De- L-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco
mand in the hospitality industry slowed slightly from its Real Estate and Construction
strong pace over the summer, and contacts expect hotel Real estate market activity continued to grow at a strong
stays to soften a bit more over the remainder of the year. pace. Residential construction activity remained robust
Restaurant sales declined in the late summer, due in throughout the District. However, disruptions from recent
part to less foot traffic at large retail centers. hurricanes exacerbated existing shortages of materials, somewhat slowing activity. Contacts in the Pacific North-
Manufacturing west reported construction delays of up to two months
On balance, conditions in the manufacturing sector due to shortages of available land, labor, and materials.
continued to improve. Production of semiconductors Strong demand for housing and continued low inventory
reached a 10-year high, driven primarily by demand for levels pushed up prices further. Contacts in some metro-
memory chips. Electricity usage by manufacturers in politan areas noted that the lack of affordable housing
Eastern Washington picked up further. Deliveries of slowed growth of existing home sales to a moderate
commercial aircraft dipped slightly, but new orders were pace. On balance, commercial construction activity
up notably over the same period last year. Contacts continued to expand at a moderate pace. In Eastern
expect strong overall demand for steel over the next few Washington, permits for commercial construction were
months as construction efforts in other parts of the coun- up over the same period last year. Contacts in Southern
try ramp up following recent hurricanes. Demand for California reported that construction of hotel and retail
manufactured steel products slowed from its moderate spaces were at an all-time high. Contacts noted that
pace in the first half of the year as orders from automo- interest rate increases have not substantially slowed
bile manufacturers waned somewhat. demand for residential or commercial real estate.
Agriculture and Resource-Related Industries
Activity in the agriculture sector was flat. Harvest yields Financial Institutions Lending activity continued to expand at a moderate pace
of grains and potatoes were down slightly due to a wet over the reporting period. Overall loan demand remained
spring, but overall quality was up. Demand for pork moderate. One contact noted that demand from small-
products dipped slightly, and profitability in the industry and medium-sized businesses slowed to a modest pace.
remained challenging. Reduced input prices boosted Deposit growth inched up slightly. One contact in the
profitability in the feedlot industry. Contacts noted that Mountain West observed a slight uptick in deposit rates,
foreign demand for some agricultural goods remained indicating an increased demand for liquidity from lend-
solid, and they did not expect exchange rate movements ers. Overall credit quality remained strong. However, one
to slow exports. In the energy generation sector, capaci- contact noted a decline in credit quality in the agriculture
ty increases continued to outpace demand growth, a industry, as continuing price declines hampered profita-
trend that contacts expect to persist as more states bility.■
adopt renewable energy generation targets. L-2



