 For use at 2:00 p.m., E.D.T. Wednesday April 16, 2008
Summary of Commentary on ____________________ Current Economic Conditions By Federal Reserve District April 2008

SUMMARY OF COMMENTARY ON CURRENT ECONOMIC CONDITIONS BY FEDERAL RESERVE DISTRICTS APRIL 2008

 TABLE OF CONTENTS
SUMMARY ……..…………..…………………………………………….………....i
First District - Boston ………..………………………………………..…….……...I-1
Second District - New York ….……………………………………………………II-1
Third District - Philadelphia ….……………………………………………......…III-1
Fourth District - Cleveland ….……………………………………...…………….IV-1
Fifth District - Richmond ….……………………………………...…...…………..V-1
Sixth District - Atlanta ….……………………………………..…...……………..VI-1
Seventh District - Chicago ….………………………………………...………….VII-1
Eighth District - St. Louis ….…………………………………..…...….………..VIII-1
Ninth District - Minneapolis ….…………………………………...……………...IX-1
Tenth District - Kansas City ….………………………………………...…...……..X-1
Eleventh District - Dallas ….…………………………………………….………..XI-1
Twelfth District - San Francisco ….…………………………...……………...…XII-1

 i SUMMARY * Reports from the twelve Federal Reserve Districts indicate that economic conditions
have weakened since the last report. Nine Districts noted slowing in the pace of economic
activity, while the remaining three—Boston, Cleveland, and Richmond—described activity
as mixed or steady. Consumer spending was characterized as softening across most of the country, with
some Districts reporting year-over-year declines in retail and/or auto sales. In contrast,
tourism was generally described as strong, with a number of Districts noting particular
strength in foreign visitors. Reports on nonfinancial services varied by District: demand for
transportation services was generally characterized as weak, while business and health
services continued to expand; other service industries were said to be mixed. Trends in
manufacturing also varied across Districts. Reports on real estate and construction were
generally anemic for the residential sector; activity in the commercial sector has slowed.
Financial institutions in many Districts indicated some deceleration in consumer loan
demand, tightening in lending standards, and deterioration in asset quality. Most Districts
reported improved conditions in the agricultural sector and robust activity in the energy
industry. Labor markets were mostly described as weakening since the last report, though a few
Districts reported ongoing shortages of skilled workers and some Districts noted wage
pressures. Increases in input costs were widespread, accompanied by somewhat smaller rises
in selling prices.
* Prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and based on information collected on or before April 7,
2008. This document summarizes comments received from businesses and other contacts outside the Federal
Reserve and is not a commentary on the views of Federal Reserve officials.

 ii
Consumer Spending and Tourism Consumer spending weakened in most, but not all, Districts since the last report. In
particular, automobile sales were generally reported to be flat or declining. Vehicle sales
were described as unchanged or falling in the Philadelphia, Cleveland, Atlanta, and Dallas
Districts and were characterized as weak in the Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, and San
Francisco Districts. However, Kansas City reported that auto sales rebounded in March,
though they remained lower than a year earlier. Non-auto retailers reported that sales were
sluggish or declining in ten Districts. Elsewhere, Boston noted mixed sales trends, and New
York reported a modest pickup since the last report. Chicago, San Francisco, and, to a lesser
extent, Philadelphia noted relative strength in demand for luxury goods. Retail inventories were generally reported to be steady or rising. Automobile
inventories were said to be accumulating in the Philadelphia and Atlanta Districts. Among
non-auto retailers, despite weakness in sales, only a few reported any notable inventory
accumulation; Atlanta cited some increase in inventories, while the Richmond and San
Francisco Districts noted that some inventory accumulation has prompted retailers to cancel
orders. Despite the general weakness in consumer spending, tourism was generally described
as robust, with that strength, in a number of instances, attributed to international visitors.
The Boston, New York, Atlanta, Minneapolis, and Kansas City Districts reported strong
tourism activity, while the Richmond and Chicago Districts described that sector as mixed,
with pockets of strength. San Francisco indicated mixed but generally weak tourism activity.
Reports from Boston, Atlanta, Chicago, and Minneapolis specifically cited foreign visitors as
a source of strength.

 iii
Nonfinancial Services Activity in the service sector was mixed across Districts and across industries since
the last report. Looking at the service sector in broad terms, Boston, Richmond, and
Minneapolis reported some revenue growth; New York and St. Louis noted some softening;
and San Francisco saw some deceleration. A number of Districts reported weakness in
transportation services: New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Atlanta, and Dallas described
shipping and freight activity as sluggish or weakening, with New York attributing the
softening to declining import volume at the port. Richmond ports also noted weakening in
imports but robust export activity. There were scattered reports of continued expansion in
some other service industries, such as business services (Boston, Philadelphia, St. Louis,
Minneapolis) and health care (Chicago, San Francisco).
Manufacturing Manufacturing activity was varied, with some Districts reporting a slight increase in
activity, some indicating weaker activity, and several noting that activity was mixed or had
held steady. Chicago, Boston, and Richmond reported that activity was rising, but not
substantially, while New York, Kansas City, Philadelphia and Dallas all reported that activity
had weakened. St. Louis and Cleveland said that activity had held steady, while Atlanta,
Minneapolis and San Francisco saw activity as mixed. Demand was reported as strong for aerospace, aircraft, and defense goods, as well as
for steel and food. Automakers increased production modestly in the Cleveland and Chicago
Districts, but vehicle production declined in the Atlanta district. The Philadelphia District
found that that demand for metals and machinery had increased. Many Districts cited strong
exports generally. Most Districts saw a continued slide in the demand for goods related to

 iv
residential construction. Excess capacity led to production declines in the high-tech industry
in the Dallas District, and Chicago reported weak demand for heavy equipment. Uncertainty
about economic conditions is leading to a varied, but generally subdued, outlook for
manufacturers.
Real Estate and Construction Housing markets and home construction remained sluggish throughout most of the
nation, though there were few signs of any quickening in the pace of deterioration. Ongoing
weakness in housing markets, in general, was reported in almost all Districts. Sales activity
was generally reported to be declining in the Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Atlanta, St.
Louis, Minneapolis, Dallas and San Francisco Districts, while Kansas City and Chicago
noted slack demand and excess inventories. On the other hand, the Cleveland District saw
some pickup in activity, while Richmond and Atlanta reported some pockets of
improvement; Boston, Atlanta, and Chicago cited some recent pickup in traffic or buyer
inquiries. New residential construction was reported to have remained at depressed levels,
and none of the Districts reported any pickup since the last report. Declines or downward pressures in selling prices were specifically reported in the
Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, Minneapolis, Kansas City,
and San Francisco Districts. In particular, New York and San Francisco noted some incipient
price declines in areas that had previously shown resilience—respectively, New York City
and the Pacific Northwest, as well as Utah. On the other hand, the Cleveland District noted
some stabilization in home prices. Commercial real estate markets were generally reported to be steady or softening in
most areas. Weaker conditions in the rental market were reported in eight Districts: New

 v
York, Philadelphia, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, and San Francisco.
On the other hand, the leasing market was found to be steady in Boston, Kansas City and
Dallas. Reports on commercial development were mixed with activity having weakened in
the Philadelphia, Atlanta, and San Francisco Districts, but having increased in the Cleveland,
Chicago, and Kansas City Districts. St. Louis characterized commercial construction as
strong. However, sales of commercial properties were generally indicated to be sluggish,
while prices were said to be under downward pressure. The Boston, Philadelphia,
Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts all reported weakness in
commercial real estate sales and prices.
Banking and Finance Banks reported mixed trends in lending activity, with fairly widespread slowing in the
consumer segment but some stabilization, at low levels, in residential mortgage activity.
Overall lending activity was reported to have increased in the Philadelphia, Richmond and
St. Louis Districts, but to have declined in the New York, Chicago, Kansas City and San
Francisco Districts. Dallas described lending activity as steady but soft. Lending activity for
new home mortgages, though generally characterized as sluggish, was reported to have
stabilized in the New York, Cleveland, Chicago, and San Francisco Districts. Consumer loan
demand, however, weakened in a number of Districts: New York, Atlanta, Chicago, and
Kansas City. Credit quality was reported to have deteriorated, on balance, since the last report.
Increased delinquency rates were noted by New York, Philadelphia, and Cleveland, while
Kansas City reported that loan quality remained lower than a year ago. Widespread
tightening in credit standards was reported, especially on residential and commercial real

 vi
estate loans. In general, banks were reported to be tightening credit standards in the New
York, Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago, Kansas City, Dallas and San Francisco Districts. In
addition, Boston noted that standards remain tight on commercial mortgages, while
Philadelphia indicated that banks are limiting lending in this category. Richmond indicated
tighter standards on residential mortgages.
Agriculture and Natural Resources Agricultural reports were generally upbeat, with most respondents citing improved
growing conditions and favorable pricing. Although drought conditions continued to persist
in some areas of the Atlanta and Richmond Districts, soil moisture was adequate for spring
planting, in part, due to increases in precipitation in March and early April. Reports from the
Chicago, Kansas City, and St. Louis Districts indicated that cool temperatures, dry
conditions, or flooding toward the end of March damaged some winter crops and delayed
field preparations for spring plantings. Farmers in the Chicago, Kansas City, Minneapolis,
and St. Louis Districts all reported plans to shift production away from corn toward soybeans
in 2008, in part, because of favorable soybean prices and elevated corn production costs.
Some farms in the San Francisco District expressed concern over prolonged drought
conditions and pending cuts in water deliveries. Dairy and livestock producers in the
Chicago, Dallas, Kansas City, and San Francisco Districts expressed concern that increased
feed costs had reduced margins. Districts reporting on energy continued to see robust levels of activity and steady to
increasing prices. In the Dallas District, drilling remained strong and natural gas production
has continued to increase. In the Minneapolis District, expansion of the mining industry was

 vii
underway, while oil and gas exploration remained robust. In general, contacts contended that
increased demand for energy was expected to continue to boost activity and prices.
Labor Markets Despite some variation across Districts, employment levels appeared to be little
changed, on balance, from recent months. Some weakening in the job market was reported
in the New York, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, and Minneapolis Districts. Cleveland reported
flat employment levels, while Richmond indicated mixed trends. Boston and Kansas City
indicated modest increases in employment, with some deceleration indicated in the latter.
Firms in the Philadelphia, Atlanta, and Minneapolis Districts reported layoffs, reductions in
work hours, or hiring freezes in response to current or expected slowing in economic activity. Despite the general softening in their markets overall, Atlanta and Chicago noted
scattered shortages of skilled workers in various service industries. Dallas reported relatively
tight labor market conditions overall and cited shortages of managers and engineers, as well
as farm workers. Staffing and temp agencies reported mixed trends in labor demand: New
York, Richmond, and Chicago reported some softening, whereas Cleveland and Dallas note
some pickup. In the financial services industry, some weakening in employment trends was
reported in the New York, Chicago and St. Louis Districts, and San Francisco noted job
losses in firms servicing the real estate industry.
Prices Business contacts across all Districts continued to report increases in input costs and
output prices. In particular, price increases were consistently reported for food products, fuel
and energy products, and many raw materials. More specifically, increases in the price of
chemicals, metals, plastics and other petroleum-based products were commonly cited. Most

 viii
manufacturers have or are planning to increase prices in response to rising input costs, while
the response of service firms has been more mixed, in part due to differences in competitive
pressures. On balance, input costs have risen more rapidly than output prices, putting
pressure on margins for many firms. Most Districts reported little change in retail price
inflation, though Richmond and San Francisco noted some moderation. Most business contacts reported that wages were unchanged or were increasing
moderately in all Districts. Business contacts in the Atlanta, Chicago, Cleveland, Dallas,
Philadelphia, and San Francisco Districts indicated that there has been some upward wage
pressure for skilled labor in some sectors that continue to experience shortages.

 I-1 FIRST DISTRICT – BOSTON Reports from business contacts in the First District continue to be mixed, with most expressing
concern about the near-term outlook. Retail respondents are seeing activity slow, although some remain
ahead of year-earlier sales levels; tourism is fairly robust in the region. Contacted manufacturers mostly
report revenue growth and say they are uneasy with high costs and a slowing U.S. economy; they are
raising their prices where possible. Real estate markets remain soft.
Retail and Tourism Retail respondents in the First District cite mixed results for the late winter months, with the early
Easter holiday adding uncertainty about sales trends. A few contacts note that while same-store sales are
up overall, they are experiencing a slowdown in the rate of growth. Despite the possibility of a worsening
economy, one respondent credits a new business plan for her optimism about spring sales. Another
contact says that although business is down, they are encouraged by double-digit growth in customer
count. Sales of housing-related products (kitchen, bath, flooring, bedding, lumber) remain soft. Inventory levels and employment are generally stable. Capital spending is mixed, with the
majority of retailers not planning to cut back. One retailer said, “you can start a negative trend by pulling
back, and we don’t want to do that.” A majority of First District respondents cite varying degrees of price
pressure, with several specifically mentioning rising commodities prices as well as fuel-related costs.
Selling prices are mostly steady, with modest increases passed along where possible. Tourism and travel in the First District is strong, with particular emphasis on international
tourism. Due to the favorable exchange rate and pent up demand, there has been a large increase in
international travelers, particularly from the UK, Ireland, Germany, and Japan. However, there is concern
about the impact on domestic travel of the unsettled economy, weak consumer confidence, high fuel
costs, and the rising price of food. Business and conference travel is expected to remain strong in the near
term. New England hotels and resorts do not seem to be scaling back on capital spending plans as new
properties come online and many existing properties expand throughout the District. Overall, First District retailers are cautious yet hopeful in their outlook. One contact notes that
“the recession probably started in December for retailers,” yet most respondents say that if the economy is
in a recession, they expect it to be shallow and anticipate that sales will start to pick up by the end of the
year. One retailer said that “it’s just a question of the consumer getting through the next few months.”
Manufacturing Most manufacturers and related services providers headquartered in the First District report that first
quarter sales were up from a year ago, but they do not view the trends as robust or sustainable. Many
contacts report an uneven start to 2008, with sales of some items or during some months hitting soft
patches. A few office and IT equipment firms say their business customers are holding off on placing

 I-2
orders. Suppliers to the home construction industry indicate that their sales remain in the doldrums. In
contrast to the general picture, demand for aircraft components and biopharmaceuticals continues to grow
strongly, and contacts generally report that overseas sales remain relatively strong. Many manufacturers continue to voice concerns about high or rising materials costs, especially
metals, plastics and other petroleum derivatives, chemicals, vegetable oils, and grains. Some also
mention elevated fuel and transportation costs. Most of the affected respondents have raised prices since
the beginning of the year, usually in the range of 4 percent to 8 percent, and some envision further price
hikes. Manufacturers generally report that customers are not resisting paying higher prices. However,
some firms are experiencing margin pressures because they sell into sectors accustomed to long-term
pricing contracts or with cheaper supply alternatives. Most contacted manufacturers are holding their U.S. headcounts steady or making gradual
cutbacks as they implement efficiencies. Biotech firms are continuing to add U.S. jobs, however.
Average pay increases generally are in the range of 3.5 percent to 4 percent. More than one-half of the
manufacturing respondents are planning to increase U.S. capital spending in 2008. Projects include
capacity expansions and product or service enhancements. Regardless of their investment plans, contacts
say that access to capital is not a binding constraint on their spending. Almost all firms mention that they are assessing how the weakness in the U.S. economy will
affect their business for the remainder of the year. They particularly express concerns about deterioration
in consumer spending and the financial services industry.
Selected Business Services First District consultants report first quarter revenue growth ranging from 5 percent to 25 percent
over a year ago. Demand for consulting services from the airline and media and entertainment industries
is robust; however, financial services continues to weaken and demand from the telecom and technology
industries has softened. The majority of contacted firms are increasing prices modestly, while the remainder are not
changing bill rates, citing competitive pressures. Several respondents note increased travel costs and one
reports a number of their foreign vendors are increasing Euro prices. Headcounts at the majority of
responding New England firms are growing, but at a slightly slower rate than revenues. One contact
recently scaled back hiring plans. Most respondents are increasing wages 5 percent on average in 2008. While all New England business services respondents express concern about the economy, the
majority are cautiously optimistic, expecting steady revenue growth in the first half of 2008.
Commercial Real Estate The conditions and trends in the commercial market are little changed on balance since last
report. Credit remains very tight; for example, life insurance lenders continue to ration credit, raising

 I-3
their interest rates by 50 basis points in recent weeks and pushing loan-to-value ratios down to 50 percent.
Conservative underwriting and credit rationing are said to reflect expectations of declining commercial
real estate property values in the coming two to three quarters, as well as shortfalls in capital reserves due
to lower-than-expected loan prepayment rates. In the greater Boston area there have been very few sales
transactions and little evidence that sellers are offering significant price discounts yet. As last time, a
mutual bank in Boston with a modest commercial portfolio continues to experience very high demand for
loans, including loans for retail acquisitions as well as new construction of apartment buildings, office
space, and retail outlets. Some of this demand is coming from larger banks looking to fund large deals
without putting up as much of their own capital. The leasing market is holding steady in most parts of the region. The vacancy rate for prime
downtown Boston office space is estimated to be 10 percent. The vacancy rate edged up from 8 percent to
9 percent in downtown Providence, and remained stable in Portland. Asking rents continue to rise in
Boston, but contacts warn that contracted rents may be below asking rates. Rents are flat or slightly down
in the rest of the region. The outlook is mixed, but biased toward the negative side. As last time, the
main concerns are that leasing fundamentals will deteriorate—some contacts mention an impending
recession—and that credit will remain scarce.
Residential Real Estate Residential real estate markets in New England continue to show declining sales and prices in
early 2008. Home sales decreased 24 percent year-over-year in January in Rhode Island, 20 percent in
February in Maine, and 23 percent in February in Massachusetts, while Massachusetts condo sales
declined almost 35 percent year-over-year. Connecticut and New Hampshire saw home sales declines of
27 and 24 percent, respectively, year-to-date compared to the same period last year. Median home prices in Massachusetts decreased about 5 percent year-over-year in February
while median condo prices decreased almost 7 percent; Connecticut and New Hampshire’s price declines
were similar. Rhode Island home prices dropped 13 percent in January, while Maine home prices
decreased 2 percent in February from a year earlier. Several contacts say that lack of consumer confidence continues to be the main factor keeping a
damper on the market, as many potential buyers wait to see if prices will decline further. However,
contacts in Massachusetts report a recent increase in traffic, especially at open houses.

 II-1 SECOND DISTRICT--NEW YORK The Second District’s economy has shown further signs of weakening since the last report.
Manufacturers report that business activity tailed off substantially in February and early March and has
been flat since. Import volume at the Port of New York is also reported to have slowed noticeably.
Contacts outside the manufacturing sector generally indicate continued softening in business activity and
little change in employment levels. More broadly, a major employment agency indicates some slowing
in hiring activity since the last report. Retailers indicate a moderate pickup in business in March, after a
disappointing February; sales are said to be on or close to plan. Tourism activity in New York City has held steady since the last report. Housing markets are
reported to have softened further, including Manhattan’s previously resilient co-op and condo market.
Office markets across the New York City area showed some signs of slackening in the first quarter, with
vacancy rates edging up and asking rents decelerating. Finally, bankers report further weakening in loan
demand, more pronounced tightening in credit standards, and widespread increases in delinquency rates
across the board.
Consumer Spending Retailers report that sales picked up somewhat in March and were back on or close to plan,
following a disappointingly weak February. As in recent months, sales were relatively strong in New
York City. Overall, sales are reported to be little changed from a year earlier, and inventories are said to
be at or near desired levels. Retail selling prices are reported to have remained steady since the last
report, but one contact foresees some significant increases in acquisition costs on the horizon. Consumer surveys point to further erosion in confidence: Based on the Conference Board’s
survey of Middle Atlantic residents, consumer confidence declined for the sixth consecutive month in
March, falling to its lowest level in nearly 12 years. Similarly, Siena College’s survey of New York

 II-2
State residents shows sharp declines in consumer confidence across all metro areas in the first quarter;
over the past year, the steepest declines, by far, have been in the New York City and Albany metro areas. Tourism activity in New York City has been steady since the last report, with the level of activity
still fairly high. While Manhattan’s hotel occupancy rate was up 3 percentage points from a year earlier
in February, room rates edged down in the month to a level 9 percent higher than a year earlier,
compared with double-digit percentage gains throughout 2007. Broadway theaters report that attendance
was up 3 percent from a year earlier in March—about the same as in February—but that revenues were
up less than 2 percent, reflecting a slight decline in the average effective ticket price.
Construction and Real Estate Housing markets in the District have continued to cool off. Manhattan’s co-op and condo market
showed clear signs of cooling in the first quarter, according to a major appraisal firm: unit sales fell 30 to
40 percent from a year earlier, while the number of listings rose, although inventories remained fairly
tight at the high end of the market. The average reported transaction price did increase, but this was
attributed to relatively brisk sales at the high end of the market (largely newly-built luxury units).
Noticeable declines in sales are also reported in Brooklyn, Queens and Long Island. Northern New
Jersey’s housing market is reported to have stabilized, but at low levels. An industry contact notes that
buyer traffic is light, and that many prospective buyers are hesitant, waiting for prices to decline further.
The number of listings has increased, and, in contrast with Manhattan, the high end of the market has
been accumulating inventory at a more rapid pace than the rest of the market. The “active-adult” segment
is noted to be particularly slack, reflecting above-average inventories and particularly weak demand.
Prices for new homes are estimated to be down as much as 20 percent from a year ago, while prices for
existing homes are seen to be off 15 percent from their peak levels. Finally, New York State Realtors
indicate further marked declines in the single-family market in February: the median selling price is
reported to be down nearly 12 percent from a year earlier, while unit sales are reported to be down 19

 II-3
percent, with some of the sharpest drops in the New York metro area. Commercial real estate markets have also slackened. Vacancy rates rose moderately throughout
the New York City metropolitan area, led by somewhat large increases in Central New Jersey and
Westchester County. Asking rents on Class A properties rose moderately in Manhattan and Fairfield
County, though at a slower pace than in 2007; rents were flat to down slightly in Long Island,
Westchester and northern, as well as central, New Jersey.
Other Business Activity A major New York City employment agency, specializing in office jobs, reports that hiring
activity weakened in March and improved only modestly in early April. On the supply side, this contact
reports seeing somewhat more job candidates recently let go from the financial sector than in February,
but indicates that there are still relatively few such applicants. Large Wall Street firms are reported to be
hiring only sporadically, and legal firms have become more patient in hiring; some hedge funds continue
to hire, while others have pulled back. New York State manufacturers report that business activity weakened noticeably in February and
early March, before leveling off in early April. Contacts also report further acceleration in prices paid
but only modest increases in selling prices. Overall, manufacturers anticipate little change in their
employment levels over the next year. A major shipping terminal at the Port of New York reports that
import volume has slowed noticeably in early 2008: after 6-7 percent gains in 2007, the volume of
incoming containers is running flat in early 2008, compared with a year earlier. In general, non-
manufacturing firms in the District report continued weakening in general business activity and little
change in employment levels; these firms also continue to rein in capital spending plans somewhat.
Financial Developments Bankers report weakened demand across all loan categories except residential mortgages, where
demand remained unchanged. The decrease in demand was most widespread in the consumer loan

 II-4
category, where close to half of the bankers surveyed report lower demand, while just one in six report
higher demand. Bankers do report an increase in refinancing activity, on net. Respondents indicate
widespread tightening of credit standards across all categories. No bankers reported eased standards for
any type of loan. Reports on the spreads of loan rates over cost of funds were split across the consumer
and commercial loan groups. Bankers reported narrowing spreads for consumer loans and residential
mortgages. For commercial mortgages and commercial & industrial loans, bankers indicated no change
in spreads. Respondents indicate increased delinquency rates in all loan categories; overall, reported
increases are now more widespread than at any time in at least 13 years of this survey.

 III - 1 THIRD DISTRICT – PHILADELPHIA Business activity in the Third District, on balance, appeared to soften further in March,
although some sectors made slight gains. Manufacturers reported declines in new orders and
shipments, overall. Retailers generally reported sluggish sales, with many posting year-over-year
decreases. Auto sales continued to fall. Bank lending has continued to increase moderately.
Residential real estate sales and construction remained well below the pace of a year ago.
Commercial construction activity remained slow. Service-sector firms gave mixed reports; some
have had modest growth, but others have experienced declining business. Reports of increases in
input costs and output prices were about as prevalent in March as they were in February. Wage
increases were reported to be moderate. The outlook among Third District businesses varies. Manufacturers’ forecasts have
improved somewhat since the last Beige Book. On balance, they expect increases in shipments
and orders during the next six months. However, retailers have generally made further downward
revisions to their 2008 forecasts, and some are uncertain that sales will turn up before the year
comes to a close. Auto dealers expect sales in 2008 to be below those of 2007. Bankers
anticipate slow expansion in overall lending but expect further deterioration in credit quality.
Residential real estate agents expect sales to continue to be slow through the rest of the year.
Contacts in commercial real estate anticipate slower leasing activity and fewer building sales this
year compared with last year.
Manufacturing Third District manufacturers reported falling shipments and new orders, on balance, in
March compared with February. Around one-fourth of the manufacturers surveyed noted
decreases, and around one-fifth noted increases. Manufacturers also reported a drop in order
backlogs, on balance. Increased demand for their products was reported by producers of metals,
metal products, and machinery. Decreased demand was noted by producers of apparel, furniture,
and industrial materials. Regional manufacturers’ assessments of current business conditions
varied greatly, with some reporting “quite good” business, while others reported “low demand.”
One contact noted that the trend in new orders was “very spotty,” and another said the “spectrum
of client confidence ranges from optimism to gloom.”

 III - 2 The outlook in the Third District manufacturing sector has turned positive, on balance,
since the last Beige Book. One-third of the manufacturers polled in March expect new orders and
shipments to turn up during the next six months, and one-fourth expect further declines.
However, capital spending plans at area manufacturing firms remain weak, with no increases in
spending planned, on balance.
Retail Retailers in the Third District generally reported continued sluggishness in sales in
March, and many stores have posted year-to-year decreases in recent weeks. Most store
executives said consumer confidence has dropped significantly. Sales have slipped for nearly all
lines of merchandise and for all types of stores. Stores oriented toward middle- and lower-
income shoppers appear to be experiencing a greater weakness in sales than those serving upper-
income shoppers. An executive at a large mid-price retailer said, “our consumer has pulled out of
the market.” The outlook among retailers in the District is not positive. The early response to spring
merchandise, according to a department store chain, “is not looking good.” Several store officials
said they have made further downward revisions to their sales forecasts for the year, and most
are limiting inventories. Many of the retail executives contacted for this report also expressed
concern about growing difficulties in financing their operations, noting recent reductions in the
availability of both short-term credit and long-term financing. Auto dealers in the region generally reported a continuing downward sales trend in
March. Inventories have increased with the sales slowdown, but dealers have been limiting
restocking. Dealers in the region have reduced their forecasts for the year, and the consensus is
that sales are unlikely to improve much, if at all, from the current rate.
Finance Total outstanding loans at Third District banks rose moderately in March across major
credit categories. Banks and other financial institutions making home mortgage loans reported a
slight pickup in originations, on balance, in March compared with February. A majority of the
new loans are conforming mortgages that have been sold to the national mortgage agencies,
although, according to one contact, “gold-plated” jumbo mortgages are being made and retained,

 III - 3
albeit at higher rates and lower loan-to-value ratios than heretofore. Bankers said they are
actively seeking to expand commercial loan portfolios but are being more selective in evaluating
potential borrowers, and they are limiting commercial real estate lending. Banks in the District
are expanding personal lending. Most bank contacts indicated that asset quality overall continued
to weaken, although most of those surveyed for this report said increases in delinquencies and
chargeoffs have been moderate. Looking ahead, bankers generally foresee slow growth in overall
lending during the rest of the year, and they expect some further deterioration in credit quality
before loan performance measures begin to improve. Banks and other financial institutions continued to report frictions in secondary markets.
According to one contact, “liquidity is scarce and trading is difficult” as most institutions are
focused on rebuilding capital. In response to retrenchment in secondary markets, some banks in
the District have stepped up promotional efforts to gather retail deposits.
Real Estate and Construction Residential real estate activity in the first quarter was well below the pace of the same
period last year. A contact indicated that housing demand has been “weak, with jumbo and
subprime mortgages gone.” Residential real estate agents said that inventories have increased, as
have average days on the market. Prices for both new and existing homes remained under
downward pressure. Real estate agents said that some sellers of existing homes have pulled them
off the market rather than accept large reductions from asking prices, and a builder indicated that
his “asking prices couldn’t get low enough” to clear out inventory. Contacts saw a few signs of
rising interest in home buying in March, with some increased traffic both in person and on
websites, but they have yet to see any increase in sales. In general, residential real estate contacts
do not expect market conditions to improve this year. Commercial real estate firms indicated that many proposed projects have been put on
hold in response to reductions in available financing and pullbacks by prospective tenants. Rents
have remained stable, but building prices have come under some downward pressure as
investors’ interest in commercial real estate has ebbed. Contacts anticipate slower sales,
construction, and leasing activity this year than last year, but they expect rental rates to remain
fairly stable.

 III - 4
Services Service-sector firms gave mixed reports on business conditions in March. Business
services firms, other than those associated with real estate and construction, generally reported
modest growth. Firms serving the real estate and construction industry, such as engineering and
design firms, reported slowing business. Transportation companies also indicated that business
has slowed recently. Employment agencies and temporary help firms reported that demand for
workers grew steadily in the first quarter, but they expect a slowdown in hiring through midyear.
Most of the service-sector firms contacted for this report expect current trends in business to
continue through midyear, with slow growth for firms currently making gains but further
declines for those firms whose business has been falling.
Prices and Wages Reports of increases in input costs and output prices from Third District business contacts
were about as common in March as they were in February. Firms in the region noted increases in
the prices of food products, chemicals, industrial materials, metals, and electrical equipment.
They also reported rising costs for energy, and some noted that further increases are expected.
Most of the firms reporting on employment costs in March indicated that wage increases
remained moderate, although some noted that wage offers for some hard to fill positions have
been raised by substantial amounts. However, an increasing number of firms appear to be
implementing hiring freezes in response to current or expected slowing in business activity.

 IV - 1 FOURTH DISTRICT – CLEVELAND Economic activity in the Fourth District held steady since mid-February. In general,
factory output was unchanged, though shipments by steel producers and service centers were on
the rise. Production at auto assembly plants increased slightly. The housing industry remains
weak with little expectation of improvement in the near future. Commercial building contractors
reported steady to increasing business and a rise in the number of inquiries. Sales by District
retailers were flat to declining. Bankers cited a slight improvement in consumer lending and a
small drop in business loans. While there has been some tightening in credit standards, credit is
widely available to qualified applicants. Energy production was stable to increasing. And the
demand for freight transport services was soft. Employment levels and wages were largely unchanged Districtwide. However, energy
companies reported strong employment growth and some wage pressure. Staffing firms cited a
slight increase in the number of job openings, persons seeking jobs, and placements. Demand
was greatest in health care and professional business services. A significant rise in commodity-
based input prices was reported by manufacturers, commercial contractors, and restaurateurs. Manufacturing. For the most part, output by District factories has not changed during
the past six weeks. Reports of decreased production were attributed to declines in residential
construction or seasonal adjustments. On a year-over-year basis, reports were evenly split
between production slowdowns and increases, with only one company experiencing a significant
decline. Outlook by manufacturers is best described as cautious, with a few contacts noting a
softening in demand. Steel shipments were on the rise for both producers and steel service
centers. Expectations call for demand to remain at current levels or to increase during the second
quarter. The strongest end markets for steel include energy and capital goods. District auto
production increased slightly in February. Output by domestic nameplates increased while their
foreign counterparts showed a small decline. In terms of year-over-year comparisons, auto
production was up slightly. Several contacts noted an increase in exports. Capital spending remains on plan, with
most producers saying that 2008 expenditures will be at or above 2007 levels. Three contacts
told us they plan to increase spending substantially on capacity expansion projects. Access to

 IV - 2
credit has not been an issue for manufacturers. However, a few mentioned that their accounts
receivable have been impacted by customers who were negatively affected by tightening credit
standards. Almost all manufacturers reported strong price increases for raw materials, especially
metals and thermoplastics. However, less than a third had raised their prices in response, and
only a few contacts plan to raise prices in the near future. On balance, there was little change in
employment levels, and limited hiring is expected in the near future. Wage pressures are not an
issue though many respondents expressed concern about rising health-care costs. Real Estate. Residential contractors reported new home sales were flat to up slightly
during the past six weeks. Almost all contacts affirmed that traffic has picked up, but they are
unable to translate it into sales. Looking forward, home builders believe 2008 sales will be
similar to those in 2007, with a slight pickup anticipated toward the end of the year. Since our
last report, new home prices have been relatively stable though some discounting is still taking
place. Material prices have held steady, while overall building costs are down slightly due to
competitive pricing by subcontractors. Commercial contractors reported that business has been steady to increasing slightly
since our last report and on a year-over-year basis. Inquiries have picked up and backlogs are at
acceptable levels. Credit was available to all our contacts. Expectations call for construction
activity to remain at current levels or to strengthen. Most contractors have experienced some
increase in the cost of materials, with the price of steel rising sharply. Workforce levels remain
largely unchanged. Pricing for subcontractor services is competitive. Consumer Spending. District retailers reported flat to declining sales in February when
compared to the previous month. Expectations are for some weakness in sales to continue
throughout the second quarter. Auto dealers reported sales of new and used vehicles were
unchanged to declining. However, most dealers anticipate an upturn in sales during the coming
weeks. Except for agricultural products, vendor prices were relatively stable. Restaurateurs
reported passing through their increased costs to customers. Employment levels were adjusted to
meet seasonal demands or for staffing new stores. Although capital spending remains on plan,
half of our contacts told us that they intend to reduce future expenditures.

 IV - 3 Banking. Most bankers reported demand for business loans was steady or declining
since our last report. Those showing increased loan volume attribute it to greater utilization of
existing lines. Overall loan demand by consumers was steady to increasing slightly; however,
bankers noted that requests for home equity loans were on the decline. The residential mortgage
market remains sluggish with most activity limited to refinancing. A majority of bankers told us
that they are tightening credit standards to screen out riskier borrowers, but that credit is
available to qualified businesses and consumers. A small increase in delinquencies was also
reported. Almost all respondents experienced growth in core deposits, while a majority saw an
easing in margin pressure. On balance, there has been a small decline in employment levels
across community and national banks. Wage pressure is not an issue though several contacts
expressed concern about rising health care costs. Energy. Oil, gas, and coal production has been steady to increasing slightly over the past
six weeks. Looking forward, a majority of our contacts told us they expect to see a rise in the
demand for energy. Reports indicate that spot and contract prices have increased across the
board. In general, equipment and material costs were stable. Capital expenditures remained on
plan, with most respondents anticipating a pickup during the next few months. Nearly all
producers increased their workforce size. However, many of them told us that it is becoming
increasingly difficult to attract qualified workers, which is contributing to upward pressure on
wages. Transportation. Business was soft during the past six weeks with freight volumes
running below available capacity. In general, transportation executives expect current market
conditions will continue into the near future. Several contacts noted difficulty in balancing
downward pressure on freight prices against rising fuel costs. However, there has been some
easing of customer resistance to increases in fuel surcharges. A few respondents reported
significant declines in capital expenditures with future spending dependent on the level of
business activity. For the most part, hiring was limited to driver turnover. Some upward
pressure on wages was linked to companies trying to retain drivers.

 V-1 FIFTH DISTRICT–RICHMOND Overview. Economic activity in the Fifth District continued to advance at a sluggish pace in
late February and March, though there were a few signs of improvement. Retailers said that
consumers continued to rein in their spending. Home sales activity remained weak in most markets
and assessments of commercial real estate conditions in the District were generally downbeat. In
addition, commercial lending activity continued to slump, though residential lenders noted that
demand for home mortgages edged higher. Other sectors fared better in recent weeks, however.
Activity at Fifth District factories and ports picked up since our last report, spurred by strong overseas
demand for U.S. goods. Additionally, revenue growth at services firms was steady and reports on
tourist activity were mostly upbeat. There was also brighter news from District farms as overall
conditions improved and spring planting activity proceeded on schedule. On the employment front,
hiring activity was mixed. Service providers added workers, while manufacturers and retailers
continued to trim payrolls. Readings on prices also varied as retail and services price growth
moderated somewhat, while raw material costs were up sharply. Retail. District merchants reported that retail sales activity dwindled further in recent weeks.
The manager of a sporting goods store in West Virginia said sales were “significantly slower” over the
past six weeks, while a contact at a department store in the Washington, D.C., area noted that shoppers
were "only spending when they had to." Sales of big-ticket items such as furniture and automobiles
were especially weak. A contact in Charleston, W.Va., told us his automobile dealership had the worst
March in company history. In response, some retailers adjusted inventory and staffing levels. An
executive at a large building supply chain said spring inventories were lower than normal and that
summer hiring plans had been curtailed. Measures of retail price growth eased a bit, though we heard
more widespread concerns about rising transportation costs. Services. District service providers reported moderate revenue growth since our last report.
Contacts at engineering and telecommunications firms noted a pickup in revenues, while contacts at
architectural and web design firms reported steady demand. In contrast, activity at financial services
firms was sluggish as clients remained uncertain about general economic prospects. Hiring at services
firms edged up in recent weeks, while price growth cooled. Manufacturing. District manufacturers said that production activity firmed a bit in March.
Producers noted healthy increases in shipments and new orders which they attributed to strong
overseas demand. An electrical equipment manufacturer in Maryland told us that his European

 V-2
business had gained momentum and that shipments to Asia remained strong. On the other hand,
contacts said tentative U.S. consumers continued to limit domestic demand. “Unabated” price growth
remained a challenge for producers. Contacts reported that raw material prices grew more quickly in
recent weeks behind sharp increases in energy costs. District manufacturers also indicated that their
margins were being compressed further due to a growing inability to pass along price increases. Ports. Export activity at District ports continued to “boom” in March as attractively-priced
U.S. goods drove growth in exports. Contacts said that increased grain exports also bolstered activity
in recent weeks. Nonetheless, port officials noted that weakening domestic demand contributed to
softness in import volumes, especially automobiles and household goods. Additionally, contacts
voiced some concerns over potential supply chain disruptions due to rising fuel costs. Finance. Feedback from residential lenders was more encouraging in recent weeks. Contacts
in Richmond, Va., and Charleston, S.C., noted a pickup in overall lending activity as an increase in
mortgage originations more than offset a slowdown in refinancing activity. Reports on interest rates
suggested only small changes. Contacts in Greenville and Charleston, S.C., said mortgage rates edged
lower in March, but lenders in Richmond, Va., and Raleigh, N.C., told us rates were “roughly the
same.” In addition, contacts noted that credit standards continued to tighten—lenders said they were
enforcing stricter income ratios and requiring larger down payments over the last six weeks. On the
commercial side, contacts described lending activity as “lukewarm.” Demand for commercial loans
was relatively steady since our last report, though activity was “still below average” according to a
lender operating in Virginia and the Carolinas. Contacts also noted downward pressure on interest
rates in recent weeks as competition for quality applicants intensified. Feedback on credit standards
varied. A Charleston, W.Va., banker said his institution was requiring more equity for transactions,
while a Baltimore, Md., contact reported no major changes in credit standards over the previous
month. Real Estate. Fifth District housing markets remained generally sluggish in recent weeks,
though there were some pockets of improvement. A Realtor in Richmond, Va., told us sales were
“basically flat” in March, while an agent in Charlotte, N.C., said sales were down thirty-five percent
from the previous month. Similarly, a contact in Washington, D.C., noted very few “signs of life” in
his market, but speculated that the “worst was over” in terms of the housing slump. On the flip side, a
Realtor in Greenville, S.C., reported “excellent” sales over the last six weeks and an agent in
Fredericksburg, Va., noted a jump in prospective buyers. A contact in Richmond, Va., said that a
majority of his recent sales had been on homes under $350,000, though a Realtor in Greensboro, N.C.,

 V-3
told us that some properties in the million dollar range were “starting to move.” Home prices across
the District continued to soften a bit since our last report and construction activity was limited. Assessments of commercial real estate conditions were a bit weaker in recent weeks as
additional softness in the northern half of the District overshadowed somewhat positive reports from
the Carolinas. The pace of leasing activity was steady in Raleigh and Charlotte, N.C., while an agent
in Richmond Va., remarked that clients were “starting to pull in their horns.” Similarly, a Washington,
D.C., contact told us that his area “hasn’t seen the normal spring pickup.” Reports on vacancy rates
were also mixed. Realtors in Baltimore, Md., and Charleston, W.Va., reported little to no change, the
Columbia, S.C., and Charlotte, N.C., markets saw rates edge lower, while contacts in northern Virginia
and Richmond, Va., noted an uptick in vacancies. Rental rates were flat across the District, though
agents in Richmond, Va., and Washington, D.C., said landlords were offering incentives to retain
clients. Reports of new construction activity remained “sparse” as lenders continued to heavily
scrutinize proposals. Agents in Columbia, S.C., and Richmond, Va., noted an increase in the number
of deals falling through, while a Charlotte, N.C., contact said, “finding a developer who can close is
the trick right now.” Tourism. Reports on tourist activity varied in late February and March. Managers at
mountain resorts in Virginia and West Virginia said their ski seasons had improved notably compared
to last year, and that their resorts’ reservations were “booked to capacity” for the Easter weekend.
Contacts along the coast, however, told us that it was “not their best Easter,” which they attributed to
the holiday occurring earlier than normal. Temporary Employment. Fifth District temporary employment agents continued to report
somewhat weaker demand for workers over the past six weeks. Contacts said that requests for
warehouse and distribution center workers had fallen off sharply, though demand for temporary
employees with computer and administrative skills remained strong. Looking forward, contacts
expected demand for workers to pull back further in the months ahead as clients revised hiring plans
amid the ongoing economic uncertainty. Agriculture. Reports from District farms were more upbeat in recent weeks. Although
drought conditions persisted in a number of areas, contacts told us that soil moisture was adequate for
field preparation and planting in most parts of the District. An agricultural analyst in North Carolina
said that farmers had started planting potatoes and cabbage and were preparing their fields for
additional spring plantings. In addition, contacts in Maryland and Virginia reported that small grain
crops were in good to excellent condition.

 VI-1 SIXTH DISTRICT – ATLANTA Summary. Sixth District business contacts indicated that overall economic
activity weakened in March and early April. Several retailer and auto dealer contacts
noted that sales were moderately lower than a year ago. However, most tourism industry
contacts reported that spending remained positive on balance. Residential real estate
activity continued to be weak, with many areas noting high inventories and price
declines. Commercial development was also below year-ago levels in most areas.
Manufacturing varied by industry, with energy, defense, and aerospace production
remaining steady, while automobile and construction-related production declined.
Banking industry contacts continued to report tight lending standards throughout the
region. On balance, labor markets weakened, with contacts in several industries
reporting a pull-back in hiring and an increase in layoffs. Contacts continued to note
concern over rising food, energy and raw materials prices. Drought conditions eased
somewhat in March and early April. Consumer Spending and Tourism. Most District merchants continued to report
weak sales during March and early April compared with a year ago. Inventories were
described as mixed, with nearly half of our contacts reporting that levels were even with a
year ago and many others citing rising inventories. Retailers’ outlook was less positive
than in the previous report, with more merchants expecting slower sales over the next
several months. District vehicle sales continued to weaken. Dealers reported disappointing sale
volumes in March, despite added incentives for slow-selling trucks and SUVs. Sluggish
consumer demand for new vehicles has resulted in inventory accumulation for both
domestic and foreign brands. Reports on hospitality and tourism indicated continuing strength through March.
New Orleans contacts noted continuing improvement in the city’s tourism and
convention activity. Gaming revenues from the Mississippi Gulf Coast resorts also
strengthened. Reports from Florida were also largely positive, with many destinations
there benefiting from an increase in international visitors, especially from Europe. Real Estate. Homebuilders and Realtors reported that new and existing home
sales remained well below year-ago levels in March. Several homebuilders noted that

 VI-2
traffic had picked up somewhat, although sales had not. Most Realtors reported that
buying interest remained very weak. Home prices continued to trend lower in most parts
of the District, while inventories remained at high levels. Overall, District housing
markets are expected to remain subdued in the near term. Most contacts suggested that
the spring selling season will be pivotal to the year’s performance. Reports from District contractors indicated that commercial development had
weakened. Nearly half of our contacts reported that commercial construction declined
significantly during the first quarter of 2008 compared with a year ago. Meanwhile,
order backlogs continued to shrink throughout much of the District. Contacts noted a
sharp increase in material prices, while labor costs growth held fairly steady.
Expectations for commercial development for the remainder of the year have weakened. Manufacturing and Transportation. Reports from manufacturing contacts
continued to be mixed. Energy, defense, and aerospace industries reported steady
growth. However, industries related to residential housing continued to report production
cutbacks and declines in new orders. Automobile production also declined. Reports
continued to indicate that the lower value of the dollar had resulted in expanded export
activity. Demand for domestic freight services continued to be weak, and high diesel
prices were reportedly lowering the profitability of many trucking companies that have
not been able to pass on higher fuel costs to their customers. Regional rail shipments
through mid-March indicated weakness in autos and housing-related goods, but gains in
deliveries of agricultural goods, chemicals, and metals. Banking and Finance. Contacts in the banking industry continued to report tight
credit conditions across the District. Mortgage loan applications continued to be closely
scrutinized, and consumer and business loans are also facing tighter standards. Small
business borrowers are reportedly being adversely affected as a result. New business and
consumer loan demand softened, although utilization rates for existing lines of credit
increased. Employment and Prices. District employment activity was generally subdued in
March. Several businesses indicated they were trimming their hiring plans, and several
reported leaving vacancies unfilled. Some were also cutting back on hours and cutting
part-time employment. According to contacts, construction-related businesses continued

 VI-3
to lay-off staff, or substantially trimmed their seasonal hiring plans. Stronger hiring
reports came from the coastal regions where post-Katrina rebuilding efforts were still
getting underway. Shortages of skilled workers continued to be noted by some contacts,
particularly in the healthcare industry. Several contacts also reported that they were
hesitant to part with skilled employees despite weaker economic activity because they
wanted to have a quality workforce in place when conditions improved. Increases in food and energy-related prices were noted across the District at both
the wholesale and retail levels. Raw materials prices, especially metals, were also
accelerating according to several contacts. The ability of businesses to pass on these
higher material costs to their customers varied. Agriculture and Natural Resources. District farm areas received more rain
during March and early April, providing temporary relief to drought-stricken areas.
Current market conditions for poultry and cotton are favorable as higher prices have
boosted the near-term outlook. Higher citrus production and inventories in Florida and
Brazil partly contributed to softening prices for those goods. Refinery utilization was
weaker because of seasonal factors tied to routine maintenance.

 VII-1 SEVENTH DISTRICT—CHICAGO Summary. Economic activity in the Seventh District expanded in March, but at an even
more sluggish pace than in the previous reporting period. Consumer and business spending
softened. Labor market conditions weakened in general, although they continued to vary by
industry and location. Residential and nonresidential construction slowed, as did manufacturing
outside of export-oriented businesses and the steel industry. Consumer lending declined, but
business lending remained strong. There were more reports of difficulty in obtaining credit, and
these were not limited to the real estate market. Cost pressures from rising material and energy
prices increased from the previous period, while wage pressures remained low. Corn prices set new
records, while soybean prices declined from recent highs. Consumer spending. Consumer spending in the District was sluggish in March. Higher
energy prices and poor weather contributed to weaker retail sales overall, despite reports of
continued strength in the demand for luxury items. A Michigan contact noted that tourism and
business travel were slow in March, with a negative effect on retail activity as a result. However, an
Illinois contact reported that hotel business remained strong, in part due to foreign demand from
business travelers and the favorable exchange rate. Sales of automobiles varied across the District,
but, overall, remained weak in March. Tighter auto loan standards were reported to be having an
effect on vehicle demand. Dealers reported only a limited impact on inventory levels from the
ongoing American Axle strike. Activity in service departments and sales of auto parts were
sustaining business for many dealers. Business spending. The pace of business spending was down slightly from the previous
reporting period. A heavy machinery manufacturer reported further investment in research and
development and in capacity. In contrast, contacts in the automotive and financial services
industries reported reducing capital expenditures. Overall, employment conditions in the District
weakened, with Michigan continuing to lag behind the other District states. Information
technology, sales, and health care remained bright spots for hiring, while the manufacturing,
construction, automotive and financial services industries continued to report weak labor demand.
The demand for skilled and professional workers remained strong, and shortages of such workers
continued to be reported. Staffing firms’ billable hours were stable and their job advertising activity
was strong. However, these firms have recently experienced some slowing in new placements, and

 VII-2
one contact noted that small to mid-size clients were delaying annual commitments in light of
concerns over near-term economic prospects. Construction/real estate. The pace of construction in the District slowed from the previous
reporting period. Existing projects were moving forward, but new projects were being delayed or
cancelled. Residential development and construction continued to fall, although the rate of decline
slowed in some District states. Excess inventory continued to be reported in some areas of the
District in both homes and condominiums. Housing demand remained weak, apart from some gains
in high-end and custom-built homes. However, inquiries were reported to have increased in March,
particularly among first-time home buyers. Several contacts reported that lower prices for existing
single-family homes were pressuring margins on new and spec homes, as builders found they
needed to reduce prices in order to move inventory. Residential rents were stable. Nonresidential
development and construction grew slowly in March, reflecting infrastructure projects such as
roads, hospitals, and churches as well as restaurants, gas stations, and hotels. Office and retail
construction growth remained steady for most of the District; however, contacts in some District
states reported excess capacity in these sectors and indicated that vacancy rates were rising. Manufacturing. Manufacturing activity continued to grow in the District, but at a weaker
pace in March. Demand for most forms of heavy equipment declined, but demand for aircraft and
energy extraction and mining equipment continued to be robust. Manufacturers in several
industries again reported strength in exports. Domestic steel production continued its strong growth,
aided by advantageous terms of trade. Soft demand continued to affect manufacturers with close
ties to residential housing. For example, one contact in the building materials industry reported
plans to implement work force reductions and was delaying plans for adding capacity. Automakers
reported that sales in the early part of the year were slightly above expectations, but expressed
concern that higher gasoline prices would reduce demand going forward. Several contacts noted
that the American Axle strike was beginning to adversely impact their business. A contact reported
that layoffs in the automotive industry were slightly lower than expected in March; however, an
auto supplier reported plans to move from two shifts to one at an Illinois plant in the near future. Banking/finance. Credit market conditions in the District were variable in March, but were
little changed overall from the previous reporting period. Consumer loan demand continued to
decline. Lenders tightened standards on loans to households with continued concerns about loan
quality. Home equity loans were steady, while home equity lines of credit declined. Mortgage
refinancing activity increased substantially. However, mortgage originations remained low and

 VII-3
standards continued to tighten, with contacts reporting that lending was concentrated among low-
risk borrowers and conforming mortgage products. Business loan demand remained strong,
particularly for commercial and industrial loans. However, standards continued to tighten, and
concerns about the commercial real estate sector limited the availability of credit to this market. A
contact in this industry reported continued unwillingness on the part of traditional lenders to finance
new projects. In addition, contacts in retailing reported financing difficulties, because banks were
tightening standards on existing lines of credit. Prices/costs. Costs rose for a variety of inputs from the previous reporting period, including
energy-related products and raw materials such as metals and cement. Several contacts reported
that rising diesel fuel prices were leading some small trucking firms to go out of business and others
to reduce activity as fuel surcharges were insufficient to cover costs. A contact in the construction
industry reported that wallboard prices had declined to the degree that they no longer covered
production costs. Many contacts cited the rising price of steel as a significant factor in their costs.
Wage pressures were limited outside of the skilled labor positions that continue to experience
shortages. A staffing firm reported some recent softening in pay rates for temporary services
employment. In contrast, a construction contact cited union wage contracts and a manufacturing
contact indicated health care as factors boosting their respective labor costs. Agriculture. During March and early April, corn prices climbed to new highs (in nominal
terms) while soybean prices retreated from recent highs. Contacts reported that these price
developments may result in a smaller decline in corn planting and a more modest increase in
soybean acres this spring than had been anticipated. For both corn and soybeans, substantially
higher input costs, including premiums for crop insurance, have increased breakeven prices for the
current growing season. Furthermore, farmers found it more difficult to engage in forward
contracts, as grain elevators faced margin calls due to higher futures prices. Winter snows and
recent cool weather and precipitation delayed field preparations for planting in much of the District,
though applications of fertilizer this past fall should partially compensate for the delay. Lower milk,
hog, and cattle prices combined with higher feed costs reduced margins for dairy and livestock
producers. Hog operations seemed to be hit hardest. There were some reports that depleted cash
reserves were creating a demand for loans, but that lenders were not willing to meet this demand.

 VIII-1 Eighth District - St. Louis
Summary Economic activity in the Eighth District has slowed slightly since our previous
report. Although manufacturing activity has remained roughly flat, contacts’ reports
indicate continued softening in the services sector. Retail sales in February and early
March declined compared with the same months in 2007. Auto sales remained largely
unchanged over the same period. Home sales and residential construction continued to
weaken throughout the District, but commercial real estate conditions remained
favorable. Overall lending activity at a sample of small and mid-sized banks increased
slightly during the first quarter of 2008.
Manufacturing and Other Business Activity Manufacturing activity has remained steady since our previous report. There was
roughly the same number of announcements of plans to open plants and expand
operations in the near future as announcements of plans to close plants and reduce
operations. Firms in chemical manufacturing and motor vehicle parts manufacturing
reported plans to open new facilities in the District and hire workers. A contact in
apparel manufacturing reported plans to hire additional workers. In contrast, contacts in
furniture manufacturing reported plans to lay off workers. A firm in motor vehicle
manufacturing idled production. Firms in wood product manufacturing and
transportation equipment manufacturing announced that they will close plants in the
District. The District's services sector has continued to soften since our previous report.
On the positive side, contacts in business support services and transportation services

 VIII-2
announced plans to expand facilities and hire additional workers. However, a larger
number of firms reported plans to close facilities and lay off workers. Contacts in
financial services reported plans to close facilities and lay off a large number of workers;
job losses were also reported in educational services and publishing. In addition, general
and big box retailers reported sales decreases in February and early March of 2008
compared with the same period in 2007. Auto sales in February and early March were
roughly the same compared with a year ago, although smaller dealers experienced some
decreases.
Real Estate and Construction Home sales continued to decline throughout the Eighth District. Compared with
the same period in 2007, February 2008 year-to-date home sales were down 17 percent in
Memphis, 13 percent in St. Louis, 16 percent in Little Rock, and 14 percent in Louisville.
Residential construction also continued to decline throughout the District. February 2008
year-to-date single-family housing permits fell in nearly all District metro areas
compared with the same period in 2007. Permits declined 56 percent in Memphis, 32
percent in St. Louis, 20 percent in Little Rock, and 15 percent in Louisville. Commercial real estate construction is active throughout the District. However,
some contacts noted that commercial leasing may be slowing. A contact in northeast
Arkansas reported that light commercial construction in general is holding steady and is
quite active in some locations. A contact in south central Kentucky reported that the
commercial market in the Bowling Green area continues to grow. Commercial
contracting contacts in Memphis reported that their business outlook is positive for the
next twelve months. A contact reported that commercial real estate leasing in central

 VIII-3
Arkansas has become sluggish. A contact in Louisville reported that commercial and
industrial construction continues at a strong pace, although there have been delays on
several large projects.
Banking and Finance Total loans outstanding at a sample of small and mid-sized District banks
increased 0.5 percent during the first quarter of 2008. Real estate lending, which makes
up 74.3 percent of total loans, increased 0.4 percent. Commercial and industrial loans,
accounting for 16.7 percent of total loans, increased 0.4 percent. Loans to individuals,
accounting for 4.9 percent of total loans, increased 1.5 percent. All other loans,
approximately 4.1 percent of total loans, increased 2.1 percent. Over this period, total
deposits at these banks fell 2.9 percent.
Agriculture and Natural Resources Total winter wheat acreage in 2008 increased by 23 percent from 2007, and most
of each District state's crop was reported to be in fair or better condition in March.
However, flooding in many areas of the District toward the end of March caused some
winter wheat loss, and damage continues to be assessed in some areas. Farmers in the
District reported that they expect to plant 10 percent fewer acres of corn in 2008 than in
2007. Similarly, they expect to plant 22 percent fewer acres of sorghum, 30 percent
fewer acres of cotton, and 3 percent fewer acres of tobacco than last year. In contrast,
they anticipate planting 15 percent more acres of soybeans than last year and 1 percent
more acres of rice.

 IX-1 NINTH DISTRICT--MINNEAPOLIS
Overall activity in the Ninth District economy appears to have slowed slightly since the
last report. Decreased activity was noted in residential construction and real estate, and
consumer spending was soft. Mixed activity was noted in manufacturing and commercial
real estate, while commercial construction and energy were steady. Growth was noted in
services, tourism, mining and agriculture. Overall, employment markets softened
somewhat since the last report, while wage increases were moderate. Significant price
increases were noted for food, fuel and steel. Consumer Spending and Tourism
Overall consumer spending was soft. A major Minneapolis-based retailer reported same-
store sales in February were up 0.5 percent (essentially unchanged) compared with a year
earlier. Recent traffic and sales at a Minneapolis area mall were consistent with last year.
Some retailers reported plans to close stores. A chain of dollar stores recently announced
plans to close locations in Minnesota and South Dakota; profit margins were squeezed
due to increases in the cost of food and fuel. A buffet restaurant chain based in Minnesota
announced plans to close 51 restaurants, while a leather goods retailer also based in
Minnesota announced plans to close more than half of its mall stores. In contrast, a North
Dakota mall manager noted that first quarter sales were strong. February traffic at a
Montana mall was up 7 percent, and sales were on par with a year ago. A representative of an auto dealers association noted that sales levels were
favorable in many parts of South Dakota. A Minnesota auto dealer reported solid sales of
imports during March compared with last year and said domestic sales were holding their
own; however, sales of SUVs and trucks were down. A domestic auto dealer in
Minnesota reported that recent sales were slow. Tourism activity increased. Convention business in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area
was up from a year ago, while recent hotel occupancy was flat; officials noted an increase
in Canadian and other foreign visitors due in part to favorable exchange rates. Buoyed by
an early Easter holiday, a Minnesota ski resort reported strong ski activity and lodging
levels during March compared with a year ago.
Services
Reports from the professional business services sector were generally positive. Several
accountants reported a slight uptick in business compared with last year. Contacts from

 IX-2
the information technology area reported a weak February but a pickup in March. Several
marketing firms reported flat activity in March. Firms supporting manufacturers said
activity was level. However, firms servicing the financial sector reported a slowdown.
Construction and Real Estate
Commercial construction continued at a steady pace. A commercial builder in Minnesota
and Wisconsin said retail and office construction was steady, but light industrial and
infrastructure construction was slow. An executive of a commercial builders association
in South Dakota said construction activity there was still strong. A St. Paul suburb
recently approved plans for a 575,000-square-foot corporate campus. Bidding began on a
$28 million National Guard training center in Devils Lake, N.D. Meanwhile, residential
construction was slow. March new home permits were down more than 40 percent in
value in Sioux Falls, S.D., from the previous year. February year-to-date residential
permits were down in Fargo, N.D., and Rochester, Minn. Commercial real estate was mixed. A commercial real estate firm in Minneapolis-
St. Paul reported higher office vacancy and lower absorption in the first quarter of 2008;
the same report showed vacancy was higher for industrial properties and flat for retail,
while absorption for both fell. A number of office properties in downtown Minneapolis
have recently been placed on the market, including one package totaling more than 2
million square feet. A commercial real estate developer in Fargo characterized the market
there as growing steadily. Residential real estate was weak. Pending sales in the
Minneapolis-St. Paul area were down 15 percent at the end of March from year-earlier
levels; prices were down significantly. A Realtor in Sioux Falls said sales there were
down slightly in the early part of the year, but he expects a healthy selling season.
Manufacturing
Overall manufacturing activity was mixed since the last report. A March survey of
purchasing managers by Creighton University (Omaha, Neb.) indicated decreased
activity in Minnesota and increased manufacturing activity in the Dakotas. A
representative of a wood products company with plants in western Wisconsin and the
Upper Peninsula of Michigan reported very poor demand. A wind turbine maker plans to
build a facility in Montana.

 IX-3
Energy and Mining
Activity in the energy sector remained at solid levels since the last report, while mining
increased. Robust oil and gas exploration and production continued in the District. Wind
power continued to expand. However, biofuel output decreased as a plant shut down
because of higher soybean costs. Expansion of the mining industry is under way as
exploration and permitting activity continued across the District.
Agriculture
Agricultural conditions were favorable across most of the District. Primarily due to
increased relative prices and input costs, farmers plan to plant more soybeans and wheat
and less corn this year. Ample moisture conditions were evident in the eastern part of the
District, while dry conditions prevailed in the west. Meanwhile, cattle, dairy and poultry
producers were concerned about rising feed costs.
Employment, Wages and Prices
Employment markets softened somewhat since the last report. In Minnesota a
thermoplastic products facility will close, affecting 350 jobs, and a newspaper recently
announced plans to cut more than 10 percent of its positions. A telecommunications
company plans to reduce payroll in the District due to decreases in demand for local
phone service. The number of active unemployment insurance claims in Minnesota was
up 8 percent in mid-March compared with a year ago. In contrast, a software services
company plans to move to South Dakota this spring, which could eventually create 200
jobs. A new research facility recently began staffing up to 100 positions in Montana. Overall wage increases were moderate. According to respondents to a recent St.
Cloud (Minn.) Area Business Outlook Survey, 37 percent expect employee compensation
to increase over the next six months, down from 46 percent in last year's survey. A
county board in Minnesota recently agreed to raise most workers’ pay 3 percent annually
over the next three years. Significant price increases were noted for food, fuel and steel. A bakery in the
Minneapolis-St. Paul area recently raised prices 10 percent on many products in part due to
increases in the costs of flour and eggs. Gasoline prices in Minnesota were 60 cents per
gallon higher in late March than a year earlier. Recent price increases were reported for
steel and copper products.

 X-1 TENTH DISTRICT - KANSAS CITY Economic growth in the Tenth District continued to slow, with gains largely limited to
energy- and agriculture-focused regions. Consumer spending was flat on net since February and
manufacturing activity slowed further. Residential real estate activity remained weak, with some
exceptions in energy-producing regions. Commercial real estate activity also slowed, with
reports of recent municipal bond problems potentially reducing the scope of planned projects.
High commodity prices continued to bolster the energy and agricultural sectors. Labor markets
slowed, but continued to show growth. Reports of wage pressures continued to be lower than
last year, but price pressures were reported at many stages of production. Consumer Spending. Consumer spending remained flat overall since February.
Retailers’ reports were balanced between growth and contraction on the month, but generally
pointed to lower sales than a year ago. Mall traffic was reported to be down and slower sales
were partly attributed to higher gasoline prices. Retailers expected business activity to recover
somewhat in the coming months but felt inventory levels would rise further. While still down
from last year, auto dealers reported a rebound in March sales, partly driven by incentives.
Travel and tourism activity remained solid with higher average room rates reported in many
areas. Restaurants reported higher sales compared to last month though the average check
amount was unchanged. Manufacturing. Manufacturing activity continued to slow in March, but modest
expansion was expected in coming months. District plants reported lower production levels and
a substantial decrease in new orders. A capital goods producer reported that firms appeared to be
“hunkering down” to avoid exposure in a volatile marketplace. Employment expectations
dropped further as well. On a positive note, exporters’ expectations for orders rose in response
to the weaker dollar. However, one exporter reported shipping backlogs due to a lack of ocean-
going shipping containers and tight railroad transportation to ports. Real Estate and Construction. Residential real estate activity was flat from the last report

 X-2
and commercial real estate activity was stable in March. Inventories remained high and sales
were below last year’s level, but were expected to improve seasonally. A major Colorado Realtor
reported that activity in the “move-up” market remained weak, while overall activity was flat.
Home prices continued to edge down in most areas, with the exception of some agricultural and
energy intensive areas. Commercial real estate sales dipped compared to the previous period, but
construction was up from both month- and year-ago levels. Commercial vacancy rates in the
District remained stable; however, commercial realtors anticipated rising absorption rates. Rents
continue to move higher when leases terminate. Developers noted economic uncertainty and
stricter underwriting standards have lengthened the approval process for new projects. The
recent difficulties in municipal bond markets were also reportedly raising the costs for public
projects and causing some projects to be scaled back. Banking. Bankers reported tighter credit standards and slightly weaker loan demand than
in the previous survey but were somewhat less pessimistic about future loan quality. Demand
declined modestly for consumer installment loans but remained essentially unchanged in other
categories. A little less than half of respondents reported a tightening of credit standards for
commercial real estate loans, about the same fraction as in the previous survey. There were also
some reports of tightened standards for commercial and industrial loans, consumer installment
loans, and residential real estate loans. About the same fraction of banks as in the previous
survey reported that overall loan quality was down from a year ago. However, a somewhat
smaller fraction of respondents expected loan quality to decline over the next six months. For
the first time in several surveys, bank deposits improved moderately, led by gains in interest-
bearing checking accounts and money market deposit accounts. Energy. District energy activity showed continued growth in March. Respondents
reported increased drilling activity from the last survey. Oklahoma and Colorado showed the
strongest growth in the number of active drilling rigs during the period. Firms again reported
that drilling was being constrained by the lack of qualified labor, but the companies did not

 X-3
expect to raise wages in order to attract workers. Credit conditions remained favorable in the
industry, and contacts continued to expect further growth in activity. Agriculture. Agricultural conditions remained favorable since the last survey period.
The winter wheat crop was reported in good condition, except in extremely dry areas of Kansas
and Oklahoma. District contacts reported a shift in crop mix that reduces corn acreage and
increases soybean plantings. The switch was attributed to relatively high soybean prices and
higher corn production costs, as well as typical rotations for soil management and crop
productivity. Livestock producers continued to lose money due to higher feed costs. A number
of mid-sized feedlots were reported to be at risk for failure. Funds availability for the
agricultural sector remained healthy and loan demand and capital spending was robust.
Farmland values continued to rise at a brisk pace. Wages and Prices. Price pressures intensified in March but wage pressures were steady.
District factories reported paying higher prices for raw materials, noting increases in metal prices
and agricultural commodity prices in particular. Manufacturers reported more finished goods
price increases than in previous surveys and expected additional increases in coming months.
However, some factories experienced difficulties passing higher costs on to customers, given
weakened demand in some industries. Builders reported that high fuel costs were raising the cost
of wood products and roofing materials. Restaurants reported higher food costs and planned to
raise menu prices in the future. Yet retail price reports showed no substantial change. The
number of firms reporting wage pressures and difficulty hiring workers was little changed over
the month, but still below last year. District hiring announcements continued to outpace layoff
announcements and on net employment in the region likely grew.

 XI-1 ELEVENTH DISTRICT—DALLAS The Eleventh District economic expansion softened further in March and early April. Numerous
contacts who do business nationally say growth in Texas is outperforming the rest of the country. Factory
production declined, and there were a few reports of temporary and permanent plant closings. Service sector
growth was mixed and generally weaker than reported in the last Beige Book. Retail sales were below
expectations. Construction and real estate markets continued to soften. Financial-service firms are cautious
about lending, but competition remained stiff for deposits and quality loans. Energy activity was still strong.
Agricultural conditions improved. Business leaders expressed concern that negative reports about the economy will affect future
activity. A high level of uncertainty has led some firms to pare down investment and be cautious about
staffing levels. Several manufacturing and service firms reported a deterioration in receivables. Prices. A continuation of upward cost pressures prevails in the markets for many inputs, including
fuel, packaging, shipping and raw materials, such as copper, aluminum, steel and liner board. Contacts said
declines in the value of the dollar contributed to increases in the cost of imported goods and raw materials.
Competitive pressures have forced most manufacturers to absorb some or all of the cost increases, but many
service firms are able to raise fares, fees and prices. Domestic demand for crude oil has been the weakest since 2003, but West Texas Intermediate Crude
oil prices moved between $100 and $110 per barrel during the period. Gasoline prices are up about 25 cents
over the past six weeks, and diesel prices are up 57 cents. Natural gas prices moved from $8 to near $10 per
million Btu. High oil prices and some unplanned outages pushed ethylene and propylene prices up sharply.
Downstream plastics producers also increased prices. High inventories are pushing down selling prices for materials supplying residential construction,
such as brick, stone and glass. Oversupply of semiconductor memory chips has put downward pressure on
the prices of products and equipment that utilize these chips.

 XI-2 Labor Market. There were more reports of layoffs in manufacturing, but the overall labor market
remained tight. There is still a shortage of skilled workers, particularly higher skilled positions, such as mid-
level executives and experienced engineers. Some contacts say tighter enforcement of immigration laws has
led to scattered farm labor shortages, notably for harvesting vegetables and fruit. Manufacturing. Demand for materials to supply residential construction remained soft—
significantly below a year ago—and weaker than expected. Inventory levels are high, and manufacturers are
cutting back on production and staff levels. Sales of materials to supply commercial construction have
softened some. Demand for paper was slower than normal. Food producers said sales have been better than
expected. Transportation manufacturers supplying the defense industry reported continued strong demand,
but other sales have slowed. Excess inventory in the high-tech industry has led manufacturers to reduce production. Sales of
equipment are down significantly over the past month and are expected to be weak through 2008. A large
inventory of memory chips is pushing down prices. Contacts say there is a great deal of uncertainty, and they
are unclear how much the slow down in orders is the result of inventory reductions or weakening demand. Soft domestic demand and rising energy prices dampened petrochemical and plastic production.
Refineries cut production in response to the highest gasoline inventories in 15 years. Gasoline demand is
running 1.5 percent below levels of a year ago. Retail Sales. Retail sales were weaker than expected, but national retailers said Texas sales are
outperforming the rest of the country. Firms that offer credit noted an increase in delinquencies. Auto sales
remained steady overall, with the strongest sales volumes for fuel-efficient cars. Rebates have softened prices
somewhat, according to dealers, who say that financing is readily available to first-time buyers, even though
some lenders have stopped making auto loans. Services. Orders for temporary staffing services improved from the last report and were better than a
year ago. Activity was strongest for positions in the service sector, particularly in IT and engineering, but
activity to support manufacturing was sluggish. Temporary staffing firms say fees have been rising.

 XI-3 Legal firms reported an increase in bankruptcy and litigation work. Demand for legal services to
support transactions fell some but remained strong to the oil and gas industry. Real estate-related activity has
dried up. There was little change in demand for accounting services. Shipping activity weakened, and firms are less optimistic about the outlook for the next few months.
Import volumes continued to fall and are not being completely offset by exports. Airlines say domestic
demand has been slightly muted by concerns about the economy, but advance bookings are holding up well.
Carriers are cutting capacity as a precautionary measure. Fuel costs are putting upward pressure on fares. Construction and Real Estate. Sales of new and existing homes continued to edge down and were
below expectations. Contacts attributed lower demand to eroding consumer sentiment and the absence of
subprime lending. Builders have cut back construction, resulting in a drop in the number of unsold finished
homes. Apartment demand remained solid but slightly under expectations. Commercial activity was mixed. Demand for industrial space is waning, and contacts said warehouse
inventory has increased, particularly at intermodal facilities. Demand for office space was stronger than
expected, but sales and investment dropped significantly. The decline of the commercial mortgage-backed
securities market has led to difficulty completing transactions, according to industry leaders, who say there is
no competition among lenders and little debt liquidity in the market. Financial Services. Lending remained soft, and some respondents said uncertainty has led potential
investment funds to wait on the sidelines. Financial service firms said loans are being evaluated with greater
scrutiny to be sure they are well-collateralized. There is much more caution with real estate and mortgage
loans. There is aggressive competition for deposits and a shift towards longer-maturity deposits that are more
expensive for banks. Net interest margins are being squeezed, particularly for small-to-midsize financial
institutions, and many respondents say they cannot take deposit rates much lower. Energy. Drilling remained strong, with domestic activity increasing to the highest number of rigs
working in the current expansion. Natural gas production was reported to be 8 percent higher than a year ago.

 XI-4 Agriculture. Planting conditions have improved, although some parts of the District remain
unusually dry. High crop prices are offsetting high fuel, fertilizer and production costs. Supplemental feeding
of livestock continues in most areas, and feed costs are high.

 XII - 1 TWELFTH DISTRICT–SAN FRANCISCO
Summary Economic activity in the Twelfth District appears to have been largely flat on net during
the survey period of March through the beginning of April. Upward pressures on labor costs
continued to moderate in some sectors, while upward price pressures were subdued for most
products but remained strong for food and energy-intensive items. Retail sales weakened further
and demand growth for services continued to slow. Manufacturing activity was mixed across
sectors but appeared to hold steady on net, while agricultural producers saw solid growth in
sales. Demand for residential real estate remained exceptionally weak, and demand for
commercial real estate softened a bit in some areas. Banking contacts reported that loan demand
was largely unchanged or fell slightly on net and credit standards tightened further.
Wages and Prices Price inflation was modest overall, but upward pressures remained strong for food and
energy products. Final prices were stable or down for most retail items, and prices fell further
for selected building materials, especially wood products. By contrast, high prices for energy-
related inputs and some raw materials, such as steel and resin, created upward pressures on final
prices for transportation services and assorted categories of manufactured and agricultural
products. Prices for various agricultural commodities and food continued to rise rapidly. Wage pressures were modest in general, with contacts noting only small increases in
overall labor costs. Upward wage pressures moderated further in sectors that have seen reduced
labor demand in recent months, such as construction, retail, finance, and real estate. However,
wage increases remained rapid for engineers and other highly skilled technical workers in
selected manufacturing industries, such as aerospace, and in computer and software services.

 XII - 2
Retail Trade and Services Retail sales continued to soften. The pace of sales slowed at department stores and for a
variety of smaller retail chains, causing inventories to rise further above desired levels and some
retailers to cancel orders for new goods. Discount chains reportedly performed better than
traditional department stores, although one contact pointed to a surprising degree of strength for
luxury goods. The volume of gasoline sales was reported to be down significantly compared
with 12 months earlier. Sales of new automobiles and light trucks were very slow for both
imported and domestic makes, and demand for used vehicles weakened significantly, with one
report pointing to a “collapse” in March. Demand growth for service providers eased overall. Growth continued at a moderate
pace for providers of health-care services. However, for providers of real estate services, such as
title insurance, activity remained at very low levels and contacts reported significant contractions
in employment. Demand for advertising has been on a downward trend, and contacts in software
services reported that sales slowed as businesses scaled back their spending on information
technology equipment. Travel and tourism activity rebounded a bit in Hawaii, with gains in
visitor counts and spending evident relative to 12 months earlier. By contrast, in Southern
California, hotel bookings for the spring and summer have been running significantly below their
levels from last year, and in Nevada casino revenues recently recorded their slowest growth rate
in four years.
Manufacturing District manufacturing activity was mixed across sectors but appeared to hold steady on
net during the survey period of March through the beginning of April. Production activity and
new orders remained strong for makers of commercial aircraft and aerospace products used for

 XII - 3
national defense. Semiconductor manufacturers reported moderate growth in revenues
accompanied by balanced inventories and high rates of capacity utilization, with solid growth in
unit sales propelled in part by robust overseas demand. Demand growth for food manufacturers
reportedly ranged from moderate to strong. By contrast, lumber mills continued to curtail
production and shed jobs in the Pacific Northwest, and demand remained weak for District
apparel makers.
Agriculture and Resource-related Industries Demand and sales grew further for agricultural products. Solid growth in domestic and
overseas sales pushed revenues higher for a variety of tree and row crops and also for livestock,
although these gains were partly offset by cost increases arising from higher prices for grain,
fertilizer, and petroleum-based inputs in general. Contacts in Southern California reported
concern over pending cuts in water deliveries caused by a prolonged drought in the Colorado
River Basin, which may curtail spring plantings.
Real Estate and Construction Conditions in District housing markets remained exceptionally weak during the survey
period, while demand for nonresidential real estate eased a bit further. Demand for new and
existing homes was very weak, and contacts reported rising foreclosure rates in parts of
California, Nevada, and Arizona. Prices continued to fall noticeably in the weakest areas, and
they have flattened or begun to fall in other areas that had shown resilience well into 2007, such
as Utah and parts of the Pacific Northwest. On the nonresidential side, activity slowed a bit
further. Contacts reported reduced demand and lower prices for commercial properties in the
San Francisco Bay Area, further increases in commercial vacancy rates in Las Vegas, and
sluggish nonresidential construction activity in the San Diego area.

 XII - 4
Financial Institutions Reports from District banking contacts suggest that lending activity was largely flat or
fell slightly relative to the previous survey period. Reports on commercial and industrial lending
were mixed, with little change reported in some areas and declines reported in others, suggesting
a slight decline on net. Refinancing activity for home mortgages picked up a bit further, but
demand for new mortgages remained at very low levels. Lending standards remained quite
restrictive for residential mortgages and construction loans and they tightened a bit further for
consumer and business borrowers in general.

