 For use at 2:00 p.m., E.S.T. Wednesday March 3, 2010
Summary of Commentary on ____________________ Current Economic Conditions By Federal Reserve District March 2010

SUMMARY OF COMMENTARY ON CURRENT ECONOMIC CONDITIONS BY FEDERAL RESERVE DISTRICT MARCH 2010

 TABLE OF CONTENTS
SUMMARY...……………………………………..……..i
First District – Boston…………………………...…..…I-1
Second District – New York…………………...……...II-1
Third District – Philadelphia……………………...…..III-1
Fourth District – Cleveland………………...…….…...IV-1
Fifth District – Richmond……………………...……....V-1
Sixth District – Atlanta……………………...…….…..VI-1
Seventh District – Chicago…………………...….…...VII-1
Eight District – St. Louis……………………….....…VIII-1
Ninth District – Minneapolis……………………….….IX-1
Tenth District – Kansas City…………………………....X-1
Eleventh District – Dallas……………………………...XI-1
Twelfth District – San Francisco……………………...XII-1

 i SUMMARY* Reports from the twelve Federal Reserve Districts indicated that economic conditions
continued to expand since the last report, although severe snowstorms in early February held
back activity in several Districts. Nine Districts reported that economic activity improved, but in
most cases the increases were modest. Overall conditions were described as mixed in the Atlanta
and St. Louis Districts, though St. Louis noted further signs of improvement in some areas.
Richmond reported that economic activity slackened or remained soft across most sectors, due
importantly to especially severe February weather in that region. Consumer spending improved slightly in many Districts since the last survey, but severe
snowstorms in early February limited activity in some Districts. Tourist activity was reported as
increased or mixed, with some improvement in hotel occupancies. The demand for services was
generally positive across Districts, most notably for health-care and information technology
firms. Of the five Districts reporting on transportation, three characterized activity as improved
over the previous survey. Manufacturing activity strengthened in most regions, particularly in
the high-tech equipment, automobile, and metal industries. Residential real estate markets
improved in a number of Districts, although several Districts noted that activity softened or
remained weak partly due to extreme winter weather. Most Districts characterized commercial
real estate and construction activity as weak or having declined further, but some Districts noted
slight stabilization and a few signs of modest improvement. Loan demand remained weak, and
lending standards remained tight across the country. Harsh weather continued to negatively
* Prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City and based on information collected on or before February 22,
2010. This document summarizes comments received from businesses and other contacts outside the Federal
Reserve and is not a commentary on the views of Federal Reserve officials.

 ii
affect agricultural activity, although some Districts reported favorable crop conditions. Districts
reporting on energy activity said it continued to strengthen, particularly drilling for natural gas. Price pressures were mostly limited, with the exception of some increases in raw
materials prices. Even with input costs rising, selling prices remained stable due to competitive
pressures and limited pricing power. Although some Districts reported an uptick in hiring or a
slowdown in layoffs, labor markets generally remained soft throughout the nation, which
resulted in minimal wage pressures.
Consumer Spending and Tourism Consumer spending showed signs of improvement in many Districts since the last report
but was hampered in several regions by severe weather conditions in early February. Retail sales
improved in the Chicago, Minneapolis, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts, and New York said
sales were well above year-ago levels in January and met expectations in February despite
inclement weather. Philadelphia also reported that sales were moving up slowly until
snowstorms hit in February. Boston and Cleveland characterized sales as mixed but slightly
higher overall than year ago levels. Sales were lower than expected in the Atlanta and Kansas
City Districts and were down from year-ago levels in the St. Louis District. Several Districts
reported that sales were strongest for lower-priced items, while sales of luxury and big ticket
items remained sluggish. However, San Francisco noted scattered reports of increased
discretionary spending, and Cleveland said some retailers noted a broader, if still slight, increase
in demand across a variety of products. Inventories were being managed carefully and held at
fairly low levels in most Districts, but Chicago said rising sales were leading retailers to begin
rebuilding inventories from low levels.

 iii Auto sales were generally reported as flat or down, with a few Districts again noting that
some of the sluggishness was likely due to poor weather conditions. New York, Cleveland, and
San Francisco all noted some softening in new auto sales, though New York cited brisk sales of
used vehicles. Chicago and Kansas City also reported declining auto sales, while Dallas noted
some seasonal softness and Atlanta said sales remained weak. Some Districts reported modest
improvement in auto credit conditions. Cleveland noted that many consumers remain reliant on
manufacturers’ incentives, and auto dealers in the Chicago District blamed part of their recent
sales decline on reduced factory incentives. Districts reporting on tourism said that activity was either rising or mixed since the last
survey period. Ski resorts in the Richmond and Kansas City Districts reported at least modest
rebounds in activity from year-ago levels, while Minneapolis characterized skier visits to a
Montana resort as flat. New York said hotel occupancies in Manhattan were up considerably
from a year ago in January and Broadway theatre activity was robust before falling off due to
weather in February. Atlanta also reported rising tourism activity related to several successful
major sporting events and a well-attended Mardi Gras in New Orleans. San Francisco noted
increases in visitors to Hawaii and Las Vegas and said hotel occupancies stabilized in some other
areas.
Nonfinancial Services Nonfinancial services activity was reported as steady or improved by the majority of
Districts. Boston, St. Louis, Minneapolis, and San Francisco reported generally solid demand in
health-care services, although Minneapolis noted continued weakness in elective procedures.
New York indicated that a growing number of service firms planned to increase capital spending
in the months ahead, but investment expectations diminished among high-tech companies in the

 iv
Kansas City District. Richmond reported that service revenues fell due to the record
snowstorms, but a few contacts saw a slight pickup in demand, particularly architectural firms,
hospitals, and financial service professionals. In transportation services, Cleveland, Atlanta, and Kansas City reported an improvement
in activity since the last survey, while Dallas said activity was mixed and St. Louis noted large
job cuts in the industry. Regional rail loadings were above year-ago levels in the Atlanta
District, especially for autos, chemicals, metals, and some construction-related equipment.
Intermodal firms in the Dallas District reported no change in cargo volumes, with a rise in
exports being offset by a decline in imports. Although shipping volumes increased, Cleveland
noted that margins remained depressed due to over-capacity issues, limiting investment in new
trucks.
Manufacturing Manufacturing activity increased further in most Districts, although Minneapolis, Dallas,
and San Francisco characterized overall activity as flat or mixed. Philadelphia reported
widespread production increases across most industries, and manufacturers in the Cleveland
District reported a general rise in capacity utilization. Many Districts reported strong production
in metals, and the Boston, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts noted strength in high-tech
equipment, particularly semiconductors. Cleveland, Chicago, St. Louis, and Dallas noted solid
improvements in auto-related manufacturing. A consumer goods company in the Boston District
said European sales were at healthier levels. Contacts in the Chicago District reported strong
growth in Asian exports but remained concerned about China’s underlying economic strength.
Dallas reported that exports for natural-gas based products remained strong, but weak demand
for refined products has trimmed margins and cut capacity utilization further. Construction-

 v
related activity remained weak in the Chicago and Dallas Districts, and new orders for
commercial aircraft and parts were sluggish in the San Francisco District. Philadelphia and
Richmond noted productions delays due to the winter snowstorms in February, but some
factories were able to make up the losses with longer work hours and extended shifts. Several
manufacturers in the Philadelphia District said production gains could be limited due to
continued tightening in credit markets and adverse developments in taxes and regulations. Plant
managers in a few Districts reported that a large number of customers were simply restocking
inventories, leading to concerns about the sustainability of the increase. However, contacts in
most Districts remained optimistic for future months, with several reports of planned increases in
capital spending.
Real Estate and Construction Residential real estate markets improved in a number of Districts, remained weak or
softened further in the New York, Atlanta, and Chicago Districts, was little changed in the San
Francisco District, and characterized as mixed in the St. Louis District. Richmond also reported
overall housing activity as mixed, but one contact noted that absent the harsh weather, market
conditions might have improved. Adverse weather conditions also hampered home sales and
construction in the New York, Philadelphia, and Atlanta Districts. Most Districts attributed
stronger home sales to the home-buyer tax credit, with several contacts apprehensive about
future sales once the credit expires on April 30. Philadelphia, Cleveland, Kansas City, and
Dallas reported that sales were strongest for low-priced and starter homes, while Dallas cited
financing difficulties for high-end homes. Home construction was down or stagnant in most
Districts, with the exception of the Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts. Atlanta said
the most pronounced weakness was among Georgia homebuilders, and San Francisco attributed

 vi
weak construction activity to elevated home inventory levels. Home prices mostly remained flat
or declined slightly, but signs of improvement were noted in the Boston and San Francisco
Districts. A real estate agent in a relatively upscale area of the New York District said prices
have continued to drift downward but that short sales were relatively rare and most transactions
were still above the mortgage balance. Commercial real estate conditions remained weak or declined further in most Districts,
although some Districts noted slight stabilization or modest signs of improvement. Commercial
real estate activity weakened in the Richmond, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San
Francisco Districts, though Dallas noted that leasing fell at a slower rate and San Francisco cited
increased leasing in some segments. Boston and Philadelphia said conditions remain weak, but
both noted some improvement in sales of commercial space. New York reported softer activity
in the New York City area but some steadying in vacancies and rents elsewhere, while St. Louis
said activity remained weak throughout the District. Several Districts also noted that many
tenants were pushing for, and in some cases receiving, concessions on rents. All Districts
reporting on commercial construction said that activity remained weak or slow, except for some
moderate boost from federal stimulus projects and other public construction. Credit for
commercial development and transactions was still very difficult to obtain in several Districts,
though San Francisco noted a slight improvement in financing availability.
Banking and Finance Loan demand remained weak across the country. New York, Cleveland, and Kansas City
reported decreased demand for most types of loans. Other Districts said loan demand was
unchanged but soft. Richmond and Chicago noted that the weak economic outlook was holding
back loan demand, and San Francisco said caution about hiring and spending plans was keeping

 vii
businesses from seeking credit. However, Philadelphia and Richmond reported banks were
receiving more inquiries from businesses about loans, and Dallas said contacts were hopeful that
loan demand would pick up by the end of the year. Most Districts indicated that banks remained cautious about lending. New York, St.
Louis, and Kansas City reported somewhat tighter credit standards on commercial real estate
loans, and New York noted tighter standards for commercial and industrial loans. In other
Districts, credit standards were little changed but remained tight. Atlanta reported that banks had
ample liquidity but were reluctant to reduce cash reserves. Chicago said a leveling in asset
quality was causing large banks to become more interested in lending to prime borrowers, but
strained balance sheets were holding back lending by mid-size banks. In the Dallas District,
smaller banks reported that regulatory requirements were limiting their ability to expand real
estate lending. Loan quality remained a concern but showed signs of stabilizing in some
Districts. New York, Dallas, and San Francisco cited further declines in loan quality. In
addition, banks in the Philadelphia and Kansas City Districts were reported to be slightly less
pessimistic about future loan quality than in the previous survey.
Agriculture and Natural Resources Harsh winter weather continued to dampen overall agricultural activity, although crop
conditions were still generally favorable in most Districts. Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas
reported that livestock were stressed by severe weather and that producers provided
supplemental feed due to poor grazing conditions. Atlanta commented that cold temperatures
caused minor freeze damage to vegetable and citrus crops. Despite below-average temperatures,
Kansas City reported the winter wheat crop was in generally good condition. Dallas and San
Francisco said that heavy rains and snowfall improved soil moisture for this year’s crop

 viii
production, though some contacts were concerned that spring planting could be delayed if fields
remain too wet. Crop prices edged down following the bumper fall harvest, but Chicago noted
that high-quality grain was selling at a premium, due in part to strong export demand. Hog and
cattle prices strengthened and dairy prices were flat. Kansas City noted stronger farm incomes
from crop production, while agricultural lenders in the Minneapolis District expected farm
income and spending to decrease. Energy activity generally strengthened since the last survey period. Kansas City and
Dallas reported increased drilling activity, especially for natural gas, and Cleveland noted
increased natural gas-related investment. However, producers in the Kansas City District were
concerned that a boost in supply from shale gas production could lower natural gas prices later in
the year. Minneapolis reported that oil exploration expanded in February, while oil production
was stable in the Atlanta and San Francisco Districts. Coal production in the Cleveland and
Kansas City Districts remained below year-ago levels. Minneapolis reported brisk activity in
metal mining and continued energy construction.
Employment, Wages, and Prices The pace of layoffs slowed in most Districts, but hiring plans still remained generally
soft. New York cited a slowdown in layoffs at a securities firm and noted a pickup in hiring in
what was still characterized as an exceptionally weak legal industry. Staffing firms in the Boston
District also saw a strengthening in demand, particularly from the financial and manufacturing
sectors. Several manufacturing and construction firms in the Cleveland District began recalling
workers, and temporary staffing accelerated in the Richmond, Atlanta, and Chicago Districts.
However, Chicago said demand for permanent workers was low, and a manufacturing contact in
the Richmond District held back employment due to productivity improvements. Layoffs were

 ix
also reported at several retail and manufacturing firms in the Dallas District, and Minneapolis
said companies in the medical insurance and financial services industries reduced employment.
Wage pressures were minimal, but Boston and Cleveland noted a lift in salary freezes and
Richmond said wages rose at service and retail businesses. The majority of Districts reported limited price pressures, although several noted rising
input costs due to higher commodities prices. Boston, Cleveland, Chicago, and Dallas noted an
increase in metals prices, particularly steel, and Chicago and Kansas City said the upward
pressure on some raw materials prices was likely to continue. Lumber prices rose in the
Cleveland and Richmond Districts due in large part to weather-related supply issues. On the
other hand, San Francisco reported commodity prices were stable or down, with declines in
natural gas, copper, and aluminum prices. Some contacts in the Boston District said customers
sought fewer price concessions from vendors in order to better ensure reliable deliveries. But
nearly all Districts reported limited pricing power, with many firms unable to increase selling
prices due to competitive pressure. Retail prices were stable in most Districts, although San
Francisco noted heavy discounting. Districts generally expected stable prices overall heading
forward.

 I-1 FIRST DISTRICT – BOSTON Economic conditions continue to show improvement in the First District. Respondents in the
manufacturing, software and IT services, staffing, and residential real estate sectors indicate that demand
continues to strengthen, with several manufacturing contacts citing better-than-anticipated increases.
Commercial real estate markets remain very weak, but respondents say they may be stabilizing.
Recession-imposed hiring and pay freezes are being removed and prices are largely steady.
Retail Contacted retailers in the First District report mixed sales results for the early months of 2010.
Year-over-year same-store sales vary from negative mid single-digits to positive low double-digits.
Respondents reporting growth attribute it in part to consumers who continue to seek value-priced
products, while contacts with softer sales attribute them in part to recent inclement weather. All retail
respondents are cautious in their outlook. Contacts continue to manage inventory levels carefully, with several retailers reporting decreases
from a year earlier. Capital spending remains cautious; a few contacts are considering favorable
expansion opportunities and others report plans for store remodels or IT spending. First District retailers
tell of increasing headcount in line with new store openings as well as opportunistic hiring of talent.
Wages remain mostly steady, although one respondent reports restoring bonuses and merit increases.
Vendor and selling prices are said to be stable.
Manufacturing and Related Services Most manufacturing and related services contacts headquartered in the First District report that
demand continued to strengthen in early 2010, in some cases by more than they had anticipated just a few
months earlier. Manufacturers of semiconductors and related equipment report sharp snap-backs in
orders, resulting in dramatic increases in backlogs, as well as some component shortages and production
bottlenecks. An IT equipment maker indicates that demand continues to be strong in the first quarter,
resulting in an ample backlog. A food processing firm also says that it is scrambling to meet customer
demands for higher volumes and faster deliveries, while at another consumer goods company, European
sales in particular are ―racing back up‖ to healthier levels. Biopharmaceutical makers continue to report
solid growth in sales. Some other respondents note that their customers remain cautious, but that sales are
at least stabilizing after a period of considerable declines. According to most responding manufacturers, input costs are largely holding steady. Metals
prices are the main exception, with some rising and others decreasing. Most contacts are holding selling
prices unchanged, except for a few that implemented increases of 2 percent to 3 percent at the beginning
of the year. Some respondents note that they or their customers are applying less pressure on vendors to
make price concessions as a consequence of a growing emphasis on ensuring reliable deliveries. Most contacts plan to hold domestic headcounts relatively steady or increase them somewhat in
coming months. Only a few firms are planning staffing reductions in 2010. Net hiring is concentrated on
scientific, engineering, and other technical occupations. Manufacturers that had implemented pay cuts
have now mostly restored wages and salaries to their previous levels. Almost all respondents that had

 I-2
suspended 401(k) plan matches have resumed making matches or expect to do so shortly. 2010 merit pay
increases are expected to be in the range of 3 percent to 3.5 percent at most contacted companies. Most manufacturing respondents are planning to increase capital spending in 2010. Many
mention that they will be expanding their capacity to perform R&D or produce new products. Manufacturers and related services providers describe themselves as either hopeful or optimistic
about business conditions over the coming six to 12 months. However, contacts in the semiconductor
industry express some concern that sales trends could weaken in the second half of 2010, given the
unexpectedly vigorous pace of recovery in recent months.
Software and Information Technology Services First District contacts in the software and information technology sectors largely report increased
activity—ranging from slight upticks to significant growth—through the end of Q4 2009 and into Q1
2010; however, a few respondents caution that business conditions remain fragile and unpredictable.
Contacts generally report increased demand across the board, including the financial, medical, and
government sectors, although some corporate clients remain hesitant to spend money. One contact also
notes that pricing pressure from competitors remains aggressive. While some firms have reduced
headcount in recent months, others continue to add personnel; however, salary freezes from 2009 have
been lifted, with anticipated merit increases generally in the 3-percent to 5-percent range. The outlook
among New England software and IT contacts is more positive than in prior months, with 2010 largely
expected to be a growth year. Despite these improved expectations, the possibility of a double-dip
recession or a slow recovery remains a major concern.
Staffing Services The majority of New England staffing contacts report that business continues to strengthen,
although a few have experienced stagnant or volatile activity over the past three months. Yearly revenues
for 2009 were generally 10 percent to 30 percent below 2008 revenues; however revenues continue to rise
over-the-quarter. Labor demand has generally increased across industries, with notable improvements in
the financial and manufacturing sectors. Increased activity is also reported in the medical, aerospace, and
semiconductor industries. While the demand for direct hires remains depressed, several contacts noted
increased conversion of temporary workers to permanent status. Labor supply remains plentiful, although
candidate skills do not always meet client demand and an elongation of the hiring cycle persists. The
downward pressure on bill rates throughout 2009 has lessened, and some applicants are no longer willing
to accept lower pay rates. All First District staffing respondents anticipate improvement during 2010, with
most expecting growth for the year to be in the 10-percent to 20-percent range.
Commercial Real Estate Contacts report modest signs of improvement in commercial real estate markets across the region.
In Boston, leasing activity in January and early February, while still light, was up from the preceding
quarter as well as year-over-year. However, recent activity has typically involved renewal of existing
leases, and renewing tenants, in many cases, gave back space. Net absorption remains slightly negative as
increases in vacancy have moderated. Boston’s downtown vacancy rate was described as ―a soft 16

 I-3
percent‖ in the fourth quarter, while the Route-495 corridor is faring much worse, with vacancy rates
between 25 and 30 percent. In Boston and Providence alike, renewing tenants have pushed to lock in
currently low rental rates over the leasing term. Providence saw a moderate uptick in leasing activity in
recent weeks, including activity occasioned by relocation and expansion of health and educational
institutions. The class A downtown office market has held up relatively well, with a current vacancy rate
of 9.5 percent, while class B downtown office space has a vacancy rate of 15 percent. In Hartford, leasing
activity remains ―very light‖ and absorption is still slightly negative, but the retail market has fared better
than expected and our contact saw a bit more enthusiasm in the local economy overall in recent weeks. Sales transactions in greater Boston, also up on a year-over-year basis, remain limited to the
highest-quality properties, for which there is brisk demand from investors seeking to add real estate back
into their portfolios without taking on excess risk. Investment sales have been ―few and far between‖ in
Rhode Island. While contacts report that credit conditions for commercial real estate have eased on a
year-over-year basis, they remain watchful of rising commercial defaults both regionally and nationally
and expect significant further write-downs of commercial real estate portfolios. A Boston banker reports
that his bank’s balance sheet remains in excellent shape, however, and that the bank has sought
aggressively to make new commercial loans in recent weeks. One contact remained pessimistic concerning the outlook for the next six to 12 months, and the
rest were cautiously optimistic. The caution came from concerns that recent upticks in leasing activity
may prove unsustainable, especially if weak job growth (if not job losses) persists; one Boston contact
thinks that rents in the city have further to fall.
Residential Real Estate Home and condo sales continued to show significant year-over-year increases in December 2009,
belying concerns that year-over-year declines would recur after the huge sales increases in November that
were mainly attributed to the first-time homebuyer tax credit. Part of the continued strength may be due to
the extension of the tax credit through April 2010 and expansion of the tax credit to include some existing
homebuyers. Contacts report year-over-year home sales increases between 15 percent and 36 percent
across the six New England states; condo sales increased between 29 percent and 66 percent year-over-
year. January data from the Boston area show these home and condo sales trends continuing into 2010.
While foreclosure sales and short sales made up 33 percent of sales in December in Rhode Island, this
represents an improvement from 43 percent in December 2008. Home prices also showed signs of improvement in December. While the median home price
declined slightly year-over-year in December in New Hampshire, it increased modestly in Connecticut,
Rhode Island, and Maine, and rose more substantially in Massachusetts (11 percent) and the Boston area
(20 percent, and then 6 percent in January year-over-year). The median condo price fell year-over-year in
December in Rhode Island but increased in Massachusetts, Connecticut, and New Hampshire. The
median condo price in the Boston area increased 27 percent year-over-year in January. Several contacts believe that sales will continue to increase year-over-year for the next few
months while the expanded tax credit is still available. A Boston contact reports that traffic at open houses
has been steady. Pending sales numbers for Massachusetts were strong in January.

 II-1 SECOND DISTRICT--NEW YORK The Second District’s economy has shown some further signs of strengthening since the last
report, despite some apparent slowing in the housing market; input price increases have become more
widespread. In general, business contacts report ongoing improvement in overall conditions and some
pickup in hiring activity. Many manufacturing contacts also indicate plans to increase employment and
capital spending in the months ahead. General merchandise retailers mostly report that sales were ahead
of plan in January, and up from a year earlier, though some report that snowstorms slowed business in
February. Auto dealers report mixed but generally sluggish sales results for January and early February,
though used car sales remain strong. Tourism activity in New York City has picked up since the last
report, though snowstorms in much of the East appear to have crimped activity in early February.
Commercial real estate markets have been steady to softer since the last report, while the sales/investment
market remains exceptionally weak. Residential real estate markets were mixed to weaker in early 2010.
Finally, bankers report weakening in loan demand in all categories, rising delinquency rates—mainly in
the household sector—but some leveling off in credit standards on consumer loans and residential
mortgages.
Consumer Spending Retailers report that same-store sales were ahead of plan in January and up 5 to 10 percent from a
year earlier, though conditions were more mixed but roughly on plan in the first half of February.
General merchandise chains attribute much of the slowing in February to inclement weather; one contact
notes that on days and in places with no major weather issues, sales were stronger than expected. One
major mall in western New York State reports some softening in business in February, but another reports
that business remained strong through mid-month, helped by particularly strong business from Canadian
shoppers—particularly on Presidents’ Day (Family Day, in Ontario) weekend. Virtually all retailers note
that inventories were lean following the holiday season, though some report fairly heavy discounting.

 II-2 New auto sales have reportedly been steady to softer in early 2010. Auto dealers in the Buffalo
area report that sales were exceptionally weak in December and remained sluggish in January, running 20
to 25 percent below a year earlier, though some pickup was reported in February. In contrast, contacts in
the Rochester area report that sales ended 2009 on a very strong note, buoyed by incentives, but softened
in early 2010, slipping about 10 percent below year-earlier levels. However, used car sales have
reportedly been brisk across the board. Auto dealers note modest improvement in credit conditions. Tourism activity in New York City showed signs of picking up since the last report. Manhattan
hotels report that last December was the best on record in terms of the occupancy rate, which rose to 86
percent—up from 82 percent a year earlier. Business remained strong in January and early February, with
occupancy rates remaining ahead of comparable 2009 levels by similar margins. This rise occurred
despite a roughly 6 percent increase in the number of hotel rooms, indicating a fairly substantial increase
in the number of visitors. Room rates have been fairly steady in recent months, after accounting for
seasonal variation, but are still down roughly 10 percent from a year earlier. After a relatively sluggish
holiday season in 2009, Broadway theaters report a noticeable pickup in business in January—total
revenues were up nearly 20 percent from a year earlier, while attendance rose roughly 8 percent.
Business tapered off markedly in the first half of February, but this likely reflects heavy snow in many
parts of the East. Finally, surveys by both the Conference Board and Siena College indicate that
consumer confidence in the region climbed to a roughly two-year high in January.
Construction and Real Estate Housing markets appear to have softened in early 2010, after hints of a pickup in late 2009. New
York City’s sales and rental markets both showed signs of slackening since the last report. Rental
activity, which had stabilized in December, has reportedly weakened more recently, while asking rents
were relatively stable but lower than a year earlier. Co-op and condo transactions, which had picked up in
the latter part of 2009, are said to have slipped across the board thus far in 2010, while prices have

 II-3
reportedly continued to drift down. Similarly, northern New Jersey’s single-family housing market has
reportedly lost momentum in early 2010—particularly for new homes—after showing scattered signs of a
pickup in late 2009. However, this may partly reflect unusually harsh winter weather this year in much of
the state. Construction of both single- and multi-family homes is moribund, as developers are reportedly
holding off on any new development. Still, a real estate agent in a relatively upscale area notes that short
sales are not all that common and that most transactions are still above the remaining mortgage balance;
however, she notes that prices continue to drift down—especially at the high end, where affordability
remains a major factor. The homebuyer tax credit is not much of a factor because it represents a small
portion of the typical house price. Buffalo-area Realtors indicate that sales were sluggish in both late
2009 and early 2010, though here, the recent extension of the homebuyer tax credit is expected to spur
increased activity in the months ahead. Commercial real estate markets across most of the District softened since the last report. Vacancy
rates in Manhattan continued to climb, while asking rents continued to fall and were down more than 20
percent from a year ago. Vacancy rates also rose noticeably in Westchester and Fairfield counties, while
asking rents were down by 6 percent. In most other areas around the District, however, vacancies and
rents were relatively stable. Commercial real estate sales remained exceptionally weak across the board.
Other Business Activity A major NYC employment agency, specializing in office jobs, reports that hiring activity has been
sluggish but stable in early 2010, in contrast with the modest pickup that seemed to be taking hold in late
2009; still, conditions are reported to be not as bad as during most of 2009. There has been some pickup
in hiring in the legal industry, which had been exceptionally weak. However, there is only scattered
hiring in the financial sector, and mostly at smaller firms. Separately, a securities industry contact
indicates that the pace of layoffs has slowed to more normal levels, giving greater job security to those
still employed; nevertheless, firms are reluctant to hire in many areas due to uncertainty about both the

 II-4
economic and regulatory outlook. Although there has been little activity in mergers and acquisitions or
IPOs (initial public offerings), other business lines are described as fairly good. Bonuses at large firms
are up from last year’s depressed levels but largely restricted (i.e. options or stocks that cannot be sold
immediately). There has been some shift in compensation away from bonuses and toward salaries. Looking at business conditions more generally, both manufacturing and non-manufacturing
contacts report continued improvement since the last report. Manufacturing firms in the District note
some further improvement in business conditions, along with modest increases in employment. Contacts
remain optimistic about the general business outlook and anticipate widespread increases in new orders,
as well as increased hiring and capital spending. Non-manufacturing contacts overall report continued
modest improvement in business and a slight pickup in employment for the first time since the start of the
recession; contacts remain mostly optimistic about the general business outlook and a growing proportion
plan to expand capital spending and employment in the months ahead. Both manufacturers and other
firms report increasingly widespread rises prices paid but little or no change in selling prices.
Financial Developments Bankers report decreased demand for all types of loans, particularly in the residential mortgage
category, where more than half of those surveyed report weakening demand, compared with just 11
percent reporting a pickup. Bankers also reported decreased demand for refinancing. Respondents
indicate further tightening in credit standards in the commercial mortgage and commercial and industrial
loan categories but some leveling off in standards on consumer loans and residential mortgages. Still, no
banker reported an easing of credit standards in any of the categories. The spreads of loan rates over costs of funds increased for all loan categories—most notably in
the commercial mortgage category. Respondents indicate widespread decreases in average deposit rates.
Finally, respondents report continuing increases in delinquency rates for all categories except the
commercial and industrial loan category, where rates are reported to have leveled off.

 III - 1 THIRD DISTRICT – PHILADELPHIA Economic conditions improved in some sectors in the Third District and have been about
steady in others since the last Beige Book. Manufacturers, on balance, reported increases in
shipments and new orders. Retailers indicated that a rising sales trend was interrupted by
snowstorms in February. Motor vehicle dealers indicated that sales have been increasing slightly
but were also hampered by snowstorms. Third District banks reported steady loan volume
outstanding. Residential real estate agents and home builders said demand for homes has been on
the rise, but February snowstorms adversely impacted construction and sales. Nonresidential real
estate leasing, purchase, and construction activity continued to be weak. Service-sector firms
generally reported steady activity. Business firms in the region indicated that prices of most
goods and services have been steady, although there were reports of price increases for metals
and some industrial products. The outlook among Third District business contacts is that business conditions will
improve slowly in most sectors in the months ahead. Manufacturers forecast a rise in shipments
and orders during the next six months, on balance. Retailers expect sales to expand slowly as
overall economic conditions improve. Auto dealers expect sales this year to be slightly above the
level achieved last year. Bankers expect only slight increases in lending. Residential real estate
contacts expect home sales to be boosted in the short term by the homebuyer credit, but they
expect just a slow increase in sales after the expiration of the tax benefit. Contacts in
nonresidential real estate expect leasing to advance as landlords reduce rents, but they expect
construction to remain soft through most of the year. Service-sector firms generally anticipate
slow growth in the near term.
Manufacturing Third District manufacturers reported increases in shipments and new orders, on balance,
from January to February, with the number of firms posting gains exceeding the number
recording declines by a fair margin. The improvement was also widespread, as most of the major
manufacturing industries in the region posted increases. Comments from manufacturers indicated
that their customers are beginning to step up orders after a period of slow activity. One contact

 III - 2
said that “for the first time in 16 months there is slight optimism among our customer base,” and
another said that “we are ramping up to handle a few large projects.” However, the overall
expansion in manufacturing activity since the last Beige Book was constrained somewhat by
production interruptions resulting from snowstorms during February. Third District manufacturers expect business conditions to improve during the next six
months, on balance. Among the firms polled in February, about half expect increases in new
orders and shipments through the middle of the year; about one-tenth expect decreases. Capital
spending plans among area manufacturers have improved since the last Beige Book. About one-
third of the firms polled in February plan to increase expenditures for new plant and equipment,
although one-half plan to maintain level spending. Despite the general improvement in current
and expected conditions in the region’s manufacturing sector, some firms said further gains
could be limited by continuing tightness in credit markets and adverse developments in regard to
taxes and regulations.
Retail Third District retailers reported that February snowstorms hampered shopping, offsetting
a marginally rising sales trend. As a result, many of the stores contacted for this report said they
will likely post month-to-month and year-to-year decreases in sales for February. Retail contacts
generally indicated that, except for the snowstorms, sales have been moving up slowly. Most
cautioned, however, that a strong growth trend is not imminent. One store executive said sales
were “just turning the corner” toward improvement. Looking ahead, Third District retailers
generally expect only slow growth in sales for some time. One retailer said, “Sales will be on a
plateau until employment picks up.” Third District auto dealers reported a slight improvement in sales since the last Beige
Book, but a negative impact from February snowstorms. Looking ahead, dealers continue to
expect total sales for this year to be slightly ahead of last year.
Finance Total outstanding loan volume at Third District banks has been virtually level since the
last Beige Book, according to bankers contacted for this report. On balance, commercial bank
lending officers said slight increases in business loans and real estate loans were being offset by

 III - 3
decreases in consumer loans. Several banks indicated that loan delinquencies have been about
steady in recent weeks, although credit quality remained a concern. One banker said, “Credit
quality is holding its own, but we are concerned that some borrowers will not be able to stay
current beyond the first quarter.” Third District bankers see some signs of loan growth ahead. Some reported increased
inquiries about business loans. However, in general, bankers in the region expect consumer loan
demand to remain soft, and they expect tight credit standards to limit expansion in lending of all
types.
Real Estate and Construction Sales of new and existing homes have picked up somewhat since the last Beige Book.
Local real estate agents and home builders said the homebuyer tax credit was providing some
impetus to sales, especially in the lower- and moderate-price segments of the market. Some
builders have started speculative construction of houses to attract buyers who wish to take
advantage of the tax credit before its expiration. However, snowstorms in February interrupted
construction as well as sales, according to builders and real estate agents. Real estate agents said
the inventory of homes listed for sale remained high, and sales prices have been steady to down
across the region. Residential real estate contacts expect sales to rise seasonally in the spring, but
several cautioned that sales might decline when the tax credit expires. Looking beyond that date,
one agent said, “We are predicting a slow recovery in sales.” Nonresidential real estate firms indicated that leasing, purchase, and construction activity
remained slow, but there have been some slight increases in the sales of commercial buildings in
some parts of the region. Contacts reported that vacancy rates have been about steady since the
last Beige Book report, but effective rents have continued to decline. Much of the recent leasing
activity has been for relatively small blocks of office space, according to agents, who say that
tenants are reluctant to commit for large blocks of office space. Contacts reported a slight
increase in leasing of industrial space, but they said the demand for retail space has remained
weak. Contacts expect nonresidential real estate markets to remain soft through at least mid-
2010, by which time improvement is expected in some, but not all markets. A contact in office
markets said that “significantly reduced rental rates will be influential” in stimulating leasing

 III - 4
activity in office markets, but a contact in industrial markets said that sector will be “tested” in
2010. Services Service-sector firms generally reported that activity has been about steady since the last
Beige Book. Some indicated a slight strengthening in demand for their services, which some
described as only “stabilization” or “an uptick.” Some engineering firms noted that they have
had increases in demand for work related to energy conservation and efficiency, but other
construction-related activity continued to be very weak. The region’s service-sector firms expect
slow growth, at best, in the near term. One noted that “clients are starting to talk about projects
they have had on the shelf, but they’re not doing anything yet,” and another said, “We continue
to be cautious.”
Prices Reports on input costs and output prices have been mixed since the last Beige Book. A
number of manufacturing firms noted increases in costs of the commodities they use. Most
continued to report that they have not raised the prices of the products they make, although
producers of metals and some types of industrial machinery have raised prices. Retailers reported
mostly flat selling prices.

 IV - 1 FOURTH DISTRICT – CLEVELAND The economy in the Fourth District continues to show some signs of improvement,
although overall activity remains significantly below pre-recession levels. Reports from
manufacturers indicated that production was stable or rose moderately and that orders have
increased. New home sales improved slightly, while non-residential builders characterized
activity in their industry as slow. Financing remains a major issue for residential and
commercial contractors. January sales figures from District retailers and auto dealers were
mixed. Energy production held steady, and reports showed a small upturn in freight transport
volume. Demand by businesses and consumers for new loans remains weak, while the growth
rate in core deposits is tapering off. Labor markets are beginning to show a slight recovery, with some business owners
recalling a few workers or increasing production hours. Staffing-firm representatives reported an
increased number of job openings, especially in healthcare and, to a lesser degree, in
manufacturing. Wage pressures are contained. We heard many reports of rising steel costs,
otherwise, raw material and product pricing was generally stable. Capital spending is beginning
to rise, but continues below pre-recession levels. Inventories remain under tight control. Manufacturing. Reports from District factories showed that production was largely
stable or rose moderately during the past six weeks, with a majority of our contacts citing an
increase in new orders. Most manufacturers told us that production levels have increased on a
year-over-year basis, though by varying amounts. In general, our contacts are cautiously
optimistic in their outlook. However, several believe that the recent rise in new orders is a result
of customers restocking their inventories and may not signal a sustainable increase in production.
Steel shipments were in line with expectations, with volume reports showing a gradual
improvement. Although no end market is particularly strong, rising volume was attributed
primarily to defense and energy. Our steel contacts are hopeful that improving conditions will
continue. District auto production showed a small increase during January on a month-over-
month basis and a substantial rise when comparing year-over-year data for domestic and foreign
nameplates. Manufacturers reported that inventories are in line with demand, while capacity
utilization is beginning to improve. In general, capital investments continue on the low side.
Nonetheless, a number of contacts said that they have increased their capital budgets for 2010;
others commented that if new orders continue to rise, they are likely to spend more on capital
projects later in the year. We heard many reports of increasing steel prices, which were
attributed primarily to rising raw material costs. However, there was little response on the part
of manufacturers to raise their own prices. Reports indicated that food-related commodity prices
have dropped. Half of our respondents said that they have increased the number of work hours

 IV - 2
or recalled a few production employees, and wage pressures are contained. Real Estate. In general, new home sales improved slightly during the past six weeks and
on a year-over-year basis. Purchases of entry-level homes continue to do well, and several
builders reported that the move-up category is gaining momentum. However, builders expressed
concern about the potential effect on home sales once the first-time home buyers’ tax credit
expires on April 30. They also reported that banks remain unwilling to lend money for
constructing spec houses, and tight credit standards are keeping many potential buyers out of the
market. Our contacts had decidedly mixed reports on the list prices of new homes and
discounting. Construction material costs were generally stable, although the price of lumber has
started to climb from its recent low. General contractors continue to operate with skeleton
crews, but some reported that they are in the process of recalling a few workers. Subcontractors
are struggling to keep busy. Reports characterized activity in non-residential construction, including public works, as
slow. Although most of our contacts said that business has fallen on a year-over-year basis and
many have nearly depleted their backlogs, inquiries are picking-up slightly. Most projects under
way fall within the public works and education categories. Nonetheless, two builders reported a
small upturn in industrial construction. About half of our contacts expect activity to remain
weak in 2010, while others see a slight improvement when compared to 2009. We continue to
hear numerous accounts of difficulties in obtaining project financing. One executive noted that
his firm is now financing some of its clients’ projects. Increased costs for construction materials
were limited to steel, and subcontractor pricing remains very competitive. Employment by
general contractors has been largely stable. Consumer Spending. Reports comparing January retail sales to the previous 30-day
period were mixed. However, a majority of our retail contacts said that sales improved slightly
on a year-over-year basis. Although consumers continue to focus on buying necessities over
discretionary items, several retailers noted that they see a slight pick up across a broad range of
products, including housewares and furniture. Almost all of our contacts expect sales to improve
somewhat during the next few months. Vendor and store pricing has been relatively stable.
Retail inventories continued on the lean side. Auto dealers reported that new-vehicle sales
tended toward the down side in January when compared to December. On a year-over-year
basis, most new-auto sales figures showed an uptick. Used-vehicle purchases are seen as holding
steady. Dealers expect overall sales to show modest improvements at best during the next few
months. Auto store inventories were characterized as tight. Some contacts told us that credit and
financing have improved a bit during the past few weeks, and that many consumers remain
heavily dependent on manufacturers’ incentives. Reports show little change in staffing levels at
retailers or auto dealers.

 IV - 3 Banking. Demand for new business loans remains weak. Bankers experiencing
increased volume attributed it mainly to draw-downs on existing lines and roll overs from other
banks, rather than new activity. Interest rates and spreads were steady. On the consumer side,
conventional loan demand dropped substantially since our last report, with several bankers
characterizing demand as very soft. Activity in the residential mortgage market was stable to
down and dominated by refinancings. On balance, core deposits continued to grow, but many
bankers said that the rate of growth has tapered off. Credit standards remain tight, with many
bankers emphasizing that they are actively managing or reviewing their existing loan portfolios
and relationships. The credit quality of loan applicants was stable to weaker for consumers and
businesses. Reports on delinquencies were mixed, with most increases occurring in real estate
portfolios. Outside of some strategic hires and controlled attrition, banks have not appreciably
changed their employment levels. Energy. Little change in oil and gas output was reported during the past six weeks, with
drilling activity in 2010 expected to be about equal to 2009. However, natural gas drilling may
get a boost from recent investments made in Marcellus shale reserves. Spot prices for oil and gas
are stable within a narrow range. Coal production continues to be below 2008 levels due to
lower power generation and depressed steel production. Prices for coal were mixed. Capital
expenditures by oil and gas producers are tightening, whereas investments by coal producers
have been delayed until market conditions improve. Production equipment and material costs
remain stable. Employment was steady, and little hiring is expected in the near future. Wage
pressures are contained. Transportation. Freight transport executives reported a slight improvement in shipping
volume since our last report. One contact noted that January shipments increased on a year-over-
year basis. Margins remain depressed, with several executives commenting that over capacity
continues to be the key issue facing the industry. Nonetheless, most contacts we spoke with are
cautiously optimistic in their outlook and expect modest improvements in volume during 2010.
Apart from fluctuating fuel costs, prices have been relatively stable. Capital spending is
expected to increase somewhat on a year-over-year basis, but remain significantly below pre-
recession levels. A few contacts noted that they plan to allocate monies for IT equipment.
However, spending on new trucks will be limited until capacity utilization improves. Hiring was
limited to replacement only. Wage reports were more upbeat: One contact said that he is
partially restoring wage cuts made a year ago, while another said he is lifting his firm’s salary
freeze.

 V-1 FIFTH DISTRICT–RICHMOND Overview. Economic activity slackened or remained soft across most sectors of the Fifth
District’s economy since our last assessment. However, severe winter storms throughout the District
played an important role. Many consumers avoided driving during dangerous road conditions, causing
weakness in retail sales (except for items such as food). One banker noted that even borrowers with pre-
approved mortgage loans were unable to do much house shopping during the bad weather. Overall, the
residential real estate market activity was generally viewed as mixed, although the commercial markets
continued to weaken regardless of weather conditions. Tourism was also mixed, with heavy snows in the
mountain areas contributing to booming activity at ski resorts, but keeping vacationers away from most
other activities. Many manufacturers lost a few days of production during the storms, but were able to
make up most of the lost production. Manufacturing shipments and backlogs, however, were largely
unchanged over the last month, while new orders improved. Both manufacturing and service employment
fell since our last report, although temporary employment agencies reported slight increases in demand,
particularly among service-related occupations. Retail. Retail revenues generally weakened since our last report, although a few merchants
reported slightly higher sales. Big-ticket sales dropped sharply, including sales of automobiles and light
trucks. Sales fell in many other categories; for example, a department store manager reported that
customers were trading down from “label” apparel to the in-house brand. In addition, retail sales fell
abruptly during recent major snow storms, although some of our contacts indicated that sales rebounded
quickly as customers fought “cabin fever” by shopping when roads were cleared. However, many retailers
were unable to recover lost sales and advertising expenses because those snow storms occurred on
consecutive weekends. In contrast, District grocery sales rose, and the store manager at a chain discount
retailer in North Carolina reported that sales of larger screen televisions were especially strong just prior
to the Super Bowl football game and following the snow storms. Several store managers said their
outlook for 2010 was more optimistic than in recent months, stating that raises and bonuses were on the
table again after last year’s freezes. However, merchants remained cautious in their planning, and
inventory levels were being managed tightly. Retail wages rose on average, while price increases slowed. Services. Revenues fell at most District services firms in recent weeks, partly due to snow storms
at the end of January and beginning of February. Virginia airports attributed a decline in enplanements to
the bad weather, and District hotels and restaurants also reported a drop in customer traffic. In addition,
CFO’s and other executives at small businesses continued to express frustration at not being able to get
loans. Architectural firms in Virginia and Maryland, as well as a few hospitals, reported an increase in
consumer demand for services, however. Also, investment advisors and other financial services
professionals indicated that revenues picked up in recent weeks, although overall business conditions

 V-2
remained mixed. A financial services contact reported that he was seeing a sense of optimism beginning
to develop among his commercial clientele. Average wages inched up at services firms; price increases
were mild. Manufacturing. District manufacturing activity was flat to up in February, with optimism for the
near-term remaining guarded. Contacts on balance reported that shipments and backlogs held steady,
while new orders posted solid increases. A textile producer said, “Business has definitely turned for the
better.” His company, however, was using fewer employees due to increased productivity. Similarly, a
textile mill manufacturer reported that sales, production and shipments continued to improve and that
business was looking good over the next two months. Moreover, a chemical producer noted that his
company had seen an increase in all of his business lines and believed that this increase would be
sustainable for the next 18 months. In contrast, a primary metal manufacturer indicated an uptick in
demand, but was not convinced that the gains would continue because his backlogs had slacked off
recently. Likewise, an apparel producer said that sales had increased because retailers were building
inventories. He noted, however, that his company was not increasing wages and was reluctant to hire
because he believed present demand was a blip and would not last beyond this summer. Several
manufacturers reported production disruptions during the snow storms, but were able to make up the
losses by working overtime and during holidays. Although most contacts reported that both raw materials
and finished goods prices increased at a slower pace since our last report, lumber prices were higher
across the board due to weather-related supply effects. Finance. Lending activity in the District remained soft and little changed from our last
assessment, although adverse weather in both January and early February was partly to blame. With
businesses closed and home buyers reluctant to drive during the extended period of bad weather,
especially in the northern half of the District, banks were getting few customers. Yet, even in areas less
affected by weather, several bankers described loan demand as tepid. One large bank reported that
commercial and industrial lending remained weak across all market lines. Another banker stated that a
modest tightening of credit standards was making loan approvals more difficult. Bankers noted that, while
businesses were increasingly calling about loans, few were ready to make loan applications due to the
sluggishness of the economy. Nonetheless, one large bank did see a “bit of a thawing” among businesses
that needed to replace capital, and a small bank stated that their one area of increased activity was in
home equity loans. Most bankers stated that more improvement in the economy and particularly
consumer spending would be necessary before loan demand would strengthen appreciably. Real Estate. Fifth District Realtors reported mixed housing activity across the District, citing
weather as a limiting factor in many areas. For example, a Greensboro Realtor noted lower sales since our
last report, adding that recent weather conditions had “shut them down.” Further, he cited the uncertainty
of the economy as a big factor in holding down sales, and said this was the worst market he had ever

 V-3
experienced. Likewise, a Charlotte agent stated that, while house sales slowed in recent weeks, months’
supply of inventory was also down markedly. However, a Fredericksburg Realtor reported that, in spite of
the adverse weather conditions, sales in her market were equal to a year ago and indicated that, absent the
weather, there might have been an improvement in market conditions. Several agents reported that home
sales in the lower price ranges continued to benefit from first-time homebuyers, although there was also
an increase in foreclosures and short sales. Agents in most localities reported that home prices were either
flat or had dropped. Commercial real estate activity in the District slowed across all segments of the market. Several
contacts reported that office, industrial, and retail vacancy rates edged higher, putting more downward
pressure on prices and leasing rates. One contact cited an increase in late payments and even defaults. An
agent stated that several retail chain stores were having trouble getting financing to sustain their outlet
expansion plans. However, local retailers were benefiting from less competition for leasing space in prime
locations from national chains. Little or no construction activity was reported in most areas of the District.
One exception that was noted included the construction of small industrial buildings such as auto
services and parts shops. Tourism. Tourist activity was mixed, with weather again playing an important role. Contacts
along the coast reported weaker bookings and noted that both occupancy and room rates were down
considerably when compared to our last report and to a year ago. An analyst on the Outer Banks of North
Carolina said that bookings for Valentines’ and Presidents’ Day weekends were somewhat below a year
ago and attributed the weakness to major snowstorms to the north and ongoing concerns regarding the
national economy. Looking ahead, however, she noted that rental bookings were up slightly and credited
the increase to creative packaging such as throwing in free linens, gas cards and gift certificates to local
restaurants. Respondents at ski resorts, however, continued to report that “business is booming,” as
record-breaking snowfalls resulted in an historically high number of visits. A manager at a ski lodge in
Virginia stated that this Presidents’ Day weekend had been the busiest in the past five years. Labor Markets. Labor markets generally softened across major sectors in the Fifth District.
Employment and hours at manufacturing firms on average continued to decline over the past month,
while retail and service-providing industries reduced hiring but increased hours. Employment was held
back, according to one manufacturing contact, by productivity improvements initiated earlier in the
recession, and another manufacturer stated that temporary layoffs were continuing due to weak demand.
However, temporary employment agents reported somewhat stronger demand during January and
February than in previous months. One agent cited a slight increase in demand for contract workers in
manufacturing, although construction-related suppliers continued to struggle. Most of the gains in
temporary hiring were in service-related occupations, such as finance and other professional services.

 VI-1 SIXTH DISTRICT – ATLANTA Summary. Reports from business contacts during January and the early part of
February painted a mixed picture of economic activity for the Sixth District. While most
retail contacts noted a larger than expected post-holiday decrease in traffic and sales,
tourism-related spending appeared to have increased as a result of several high profile
events. Residential real estate contacts indicated that both new and existing home sales
softened, but generally remained above weak levels from a year ago. Commercial
contractors continued to describe activity as weak. District manufacturers noted an
improvement in new orders and the decline in production slowed. Banking contacts
continued to note weakness in loan demand. Overall, businesses reported that labor
demand remained subdued. However, temporary help agencies have noted a steady
increase in job orders since the beginning of the year. Some manufacturing contacts
reported an increase in input prices, but retail contacts suggested that they had very little
pricing power. Consumer Spending and Tourism. Most District retailers indicated that traffic
and sales were lower than expected. Merchants reported that they continued to keep
inventories at low levels. The outlook among retailers was mixed, with almost half of
those contacted noting that they expect an increase in sales over the next few months.
Despite the higher sales expectations, retailers did not indicate that they planned to make
significant adjustments to inventories. District vehicle sales remained weak in January
despite gains reported in some light vehicle segments. Tourism-related spending strengthened throughout the District. Miami, in
particular, experienced strong demand for hotel bookings related to the Pro Bowl and the
Super Bowl. Mardi Gras, which took place in mid-February in New Orleans, is estimated
to have had the highest number of attendees since 2005. Cruise industry sources noted
that onboard spending increased in early 2010. The overall outlook among hospitality
contacts improved since the last report. Real Estate and Construction. According to reports from District homebuilders,
new home sales softened somewhat across the region. Weakness was most pronounced
among Georgia homebuilders. The majority continued to report that construction activity
declined on a year-over-year basis. Most said that unsold home inventory was below

 VI-2
year-ago levels, while reports indicated that new home inventory continued to decline on
a month-to-month basis as well. The majority of builders continued to note year-over-
year declines in home prices, but more than two-thirds of respondents said prices were
unchanged from December. Overall, the outlook for home sales improved slightly, while
expected construction activity softened a bit. Reports from Realtors also indicated that existing home sales growth softened
during January. Some noted that weather had been a deterrent to sales. Realtors indicated
that high-end home sales growth remained weak but continued to improve, while low to
mid-priced home sales growth softened. On a year-over-year basis, existing home
inventories were mixed; however, reports indicated that unsold inventory increased from
December. Most contacts continued to report year-over-year declines in home prices and
more than half reported that prices had declined from December. The outlook remains
positive but softened somewhat from December. Commercial construction across the District remained at low levels during the
reporting period. Most contractors reported that activity was even with fourth quarter
2009, while a few reported continued weakness. A little more than half said that
backlogs were similar to fourth-quarter levels but were below year-ago levels. Most
reported that demand for new construction remained very weak. Looking ahead, the
majority of contacts anticipate commercial construction activity for the remainder of the
year to be largely flat. Manufacturing and Transportation. Recent reports from Sixth District
manufacturers revealed that new orders rose, while the decline in production moderated.
Over half of the manufacturers contacted expect production levels to rise in the coming
months. With regard to finished inventory, contacts continued to report ongoing
reductions. Transportation contacts reported that freight demand modestly improved in early
2010. Regional rail loadings in January and early February were above year-ago levels,
with autos, chemicals, metals, and some construction-related shipments posting
noticeable gains. Banking and Finance. Overall, the level of bank lending continued to contract
as credit conditions remained relatively tight. Banks reported having ample liquidity, but

 VI-3
remained cautious of reducing cash reserves. Weak loan demand, particularly related to
business expansion, continued to be noted by banking contacts throughout the region.
Contacts also noted that stricter loan terms have effectively reduced the pool of qualified
loan applications. Employment and Prices. Temporary help agencies continued to report an
increase in job orders in January and early February. However, unemployment remains
high across the District and job creation remained tepid. Businesses continued to
describe attempts to do more with less, such as combining the duties of several jobs into
one. District manufacturing contacts indicated that input prices were up compared with
a year ago, citing rising commodity prices as a primary factor. District retailers indicated
that they had little pricing power and were wary of trying to pass input price increases
through to consumers. Natural Resources and Agriculture. Crude oil production in the District
moderated slightly in January and early February, though output remained above the lows
seen in August 2009. Industry contacts noted that refineries in the region continued to
scale back processing of distillate fuel oil, helping to deplete historically elevated stocks.
Recent wet weather and cold temperatures have negatively affected winter crops in
Alabama and Georgia and limited farm work in most areas of the District. Meanwhile,
Florida’s farmers reported minor losses of vegetable, sugarcane, and citrus crops as a
result of a winter freeze.

 VII-1 SEVENTH DISTRICT—CHICAGO Summary. Economic activity in the Seventh District improved at a moderate pace in
January and February. Consumer and business spending increased slightly. Manufacturing
continued to improve, while construction remained weak. Credit conditions were little changed.
Price pressures for most raw materials leveled off, and wage pressures were minimal. Hog and
cattle prices rose, while feed costs fell along with corn and soybean prices. Consumer spending. Consumer spending increased slightly in January and February.
Retail sales continued to improve, although contacts indicated that the rate of increase had slowed
in recent weeks. Sales of consumer durables and luxury items remained weaker than nondurables
and necessities, but a small pick-up in demand for appliances was reported. Rising sales led retailers
to begin to rebuild inventories from their very low levels. Contacts expected that this would likely
continue through the first half of the year. Auto sales were down from the previous reporting period.
Fewer incentives, inclement weather, and the Toyota recall contributed to the decline. Contacts
indicated that many Toyota customers had likely held off on purchases given concern over the
recall’s negative impact on the residual value of their Toyota vehicles. Auto dealers reported that
inventories, while still lower than normal, were at comfortable levels. Business spending. Business spending also increased slightly from the previous reporting
period. Contacts indicated that inventories were currently being restocked only as needed to keep up
with demand. Several manufacturing contacts questioned the sustainability of any further inventory
accumulation, pointing to uncertainty surrounding the economic outlook, volatility of materials
prices, and tighter credit as forces keeping inventories lean. Most contacts, however, thought that
these factors would at worst only serve to delay the rebuild in manufacturing until the second half of
the year. Labor market conditions improved somewhat in January and February with layoffs
declining and the workweek increasing. In addition, the demand for temporary workers remained
strong with a large staffing firm reporting that billable hours increased substantially, particularly
from the manufacturing sector. Permanent hiring continued to be slow, but contacts indicated some
improvement in demand in information technology, healthcare, sales, and financial services. Construction/real estate. Construction activity remained weak in January and February.
Residential development was at a standstill, with very few substantial new projects expected to
come on-line in the near future. In contrast, interest in investing in existing apartment buildings was
indicated to be very strong. Contacts did, however, expect that residential construction would

 VII-2
increase some through the spring as developers meet demand stemming from the homebuyer tax
credit that expires in April. To do so, most builders are working solely off existing lots given the
large inventory of distressed land still available for sale. Demand remained weak for nonresidential
construction. The overhang of vacant buildings continued to hold back commercial and industrial
construction. Infrastructure construction was the lone bright spot with the federal stimulus bill
funding providing some boost. Manufacturing. Manufacturing activity gradually improved in January and February.
Orders increased, primarily reflecting the restocking of inventories. In contrast, contacts noted that
order backlogs were declining and customers were hesitant to place new bookings much beyond the
first quarter. The auto industry remained a strong source of growth in manufacturing, as did
pharmaceuticals. Steady improvement was also noted in steel and heavy machinery, particularly
sales of mining and agriculture equipment. Demand from Asia continued to propel export activity;
but with growth in the Chinese economy expected to slow, contacts thought export activity would
recede some in the near future. Manufacturers with ties to residential or commercial construction
were much less positive, and did not expect to see much of a recovery in 2010. However, a contact
noted that dealer inventories of heavy equipment had returned to a more normal level and indicated
that distributors were being told to prepare for an increase in shipments by a large manufacturer of
heavy equipment. This was seen as providing justification for an expected pick-up in
manufacturing activity in the second half of the year. Banking/finance. Reports on credit conditions were little changed from the previous
reporting period. Banking contacts reported that business loan demand remained low with
utilization of credit lines continuing to decline. Consumer credit conditions, on the other hand,
continued to slowly improve with auto lending leading the way. Contacts noted that many of their
business and consumer clients were still waiting for the uncertainty surrounding the economic
outlook to pass before taking on new debt. Several indicated, however, that with the significant
declines in loan volume in recent months, competition for high-credit-quality, high-return customers
was beginning to pick up slowly. This was especially true for larger banks where declines in asset
quality showed further signs of leveling off in January and February. However, the strained balance
sheets of many midsize banks continued to limit the availability of credit. Contacts generally
expected that credit availability would increase only slowly in 2010, in line with their expectations
for a gradual recovery in economic activity.

 VII-3 Prices/costs. Price pressures for most raw materials flattened out from the previous
reporting period. In contrast, upward pressure on prices for industrial metals like steel and copper
was expected to continue, as demand outstripped capacity currently on-line. The colder than
expected winter led to higher natural gas prices, increasing energy costs. However, contacts
indicated that natural gas in storage remained very high and that the current pressure on prices was
likely to be temporary. Pass-through of cost pressures to downstream prices was small on balance,
as contacts indicated pricing power remained limited in many industries. Wage pressures were
reported to be minimal. Agriculture. News that last fall’s corn harvest was a record triggered declines in the price
of corn, even though a higher than typical percentage of corn acres remained unharvested. There
continued to be problems with the quality of corn in storage, leading to price discounts at delivery.
Higher than normal drying costs compressed corn margins, too. In contrast, high quality grain was
selling at a premium reflecting in part export demand. With much field preparation work left
undone last fall and above normal snows this winter, weather this spring will play a larger role than
typical in planting decisions. Hog and cattle prices moved up during the reporting period, although
dairy prices flattened out. Feed costs declined with corn and soybean prices, and financial pressures
on livestock producers lessened from those experienced during a challenging 2009. Still, contacts
reported that refinancing agricultural loans was more difficult than in recent years.

 VIII-1 Eighth District - St. Louis
Summary Economic conditions in the Eighth District were mixed but showed further signs of improvement
in some areas. Manufacturing activity, in particular, increased since our previous report. Services
activity, in contrast, declined since our previous report. Retail sales were down in January and February
over a year ago, while auto sales were about even over the same period. Residential real estate market
conditions were mixed while commercial and industrial residential markets remained slow. Overall
lending at a sample of large District banks decreased moderately during the fourth quarter of 2009.
Consumer Spending Contacts reported that retail sales in January and early February were down, on average, over
year-earlier levels. About 52 percent of the retailers saw decreases in sales, while 32 percent saw
increases and 16 percent saw no changes. About 53 percent of the respondents noted that sales levels met
their expectations, 42 percent reported that sales were below expectations, and 5 percent reported that
sales were above expectations. Lower-priced items and men’s apparel were strong sellers, while higher-
priced items moved more slowly. About 64 percent of the contacts noted that inventories were at desired
levels, while 20 percent reported too-high inventories and 16 percent reported too-low inventories. The
sales outlook among the retailers was mostly positive for March and April. About 54 percent of the
retailers expect sales to increase over 2009 levels, while 25 percent expect sales to decrease and 21
percent expect sales to be similar to last year. Car dealers in the District reported that, compared with last year, sales in January and early
February were roughly the same, on average. About 55 percent of the car dealers surveyed saw decreases
in sales, while 41 percent saw increases and 4 percent saw no changes. About 32 percent reported an
increase in low-end vehicle sales relative to high-end vehicle sales, while 14 percent reported the
opposite. About 30 percent reported more acceptances of finance applications, but another 30 percent
reported more rejections. About 27 percent of the car dealers surveyed reported that their inventories
were too low, while 18 percent reported that their inventories were too high. The sales outlook among the

 VIII-2
car dealers was generally optimistic for March and April. About 68 percent of the car dealers expect sales
to increase over 2009 levels, but 27 percent expect sales to decrease. The remaining 5 percent expect
sales to be similar to last year.
Manufacturing and Other Business Activity Manufacturing activity increased since our previous survey. More contacts reported plans to
expand or start new operations and increase employment than contacts who reported that order volumes
remain slow and that they have no plans to expand employment. Several firms in auto parts
manufacturing reported an increase in new orders and are expanding operations and hiring new
employees accordingly. Firms in aerospace products; furniture; cosmetics; and heating, ventilation, and
air conditioning manufacturing announced expansion plans. Firms in plastic products and fabricated
metal products also announced plans to open new plants in the District and expand employment. In
contrast, a smaller number of firms reported that order volumes remain slow and anticipate negative
effects on employment. A firm in animal slaughtering and processing announced that it will close its
operations, resulting in a large number of job losses. Employment in the District's service sector contracted since our previous report. Several contacts
in business support services announced layoffs. Similarly, firms in transportation/warehousing and
medical services announced large job cuts. A firm in the leisure/hospitality business declared bankruptcy,
resulting in a large number of seasonal job losses. In contrast, two firms in medical services announced
an expansion in their local regions, with new facilities and additional hires.
Real Estate and Construction Home sales were mixed throughout the Eighth District. Compared with the same period in 2008,
December 2009 year-to-date home sales were up 3 percent in Louisville and 1 percent in St. Louis while
home sales were down 2 percent in Little Rock and 10 percent in Memphis. Residential construction
continued to decline throughout most of the District. December 2009 year-to-date single-family housing
permits fell in most District metro areas compared with the same period in 2008. Permits declined 4
percent in Little Rock, 13 percent in St. Louis, 15 percent in Louisville, and 32 percent in Memphis.

 VIII-3 Commercial and industrial real estate market conditions remained slow throughout the District.
Compared with the third quarter of 2009, fourth-quarter 2009 industrial vacancy rates increased in Little
Rock and Louisville but decreased in Memphis and St. Louis. During the same period, the suburban
office vacancy rate increased in Louisville but decreased in St. Louis, Memphis, and Little Rock. The
downtown office vacancy rate increased in Louisville and Little Rock but remained the same in St. Louis
and Memphis. A contact in northeast Arkansas reported that construction is at a standstill with the
exception of a large hospital project. A contact in Evansville, IN, noted that major construction projects
are lagging and that improvement is not expected for six to twelve months.
Banking and Finance A survey of senior loan officers at a sample of large District banks showed a moderate decrease
in overall lending activity during the fourth quarter of 2008. During this period, credit standards for
commercial and industrial loans remained unchanged, while demand for these loans ranged from about
the same to moderately stronger. Credit standards for commercial real estate loans were tightened
somewhat, while demand for these loans was about the same. Meanwhile, credit standards for consumer
loans remained unchanged, while demand ranged from about the same to weaker. Credit standards for
residential mortgage loans ranged from unchanged to tightened somewhat, while demand for these loans
ranged from about the same to moderately weaker.
Agriculture and Natural Resources Total production of corn, soybeans, and rice increased from 2008 to 2009 in the District states,
while total production of sorghum, winter wheat, cotton, and tobacco decreased. In the District states, the
prices of corn, winter wheat, rice, and tobacco decreased from 2008 to 2009 while the price of cotton
increased; the prices of soybeans and sorghum were down in most District states. The total value of field
crops in District states fell by 7 percent from 2008 to 2009.

 IX-1 NINTH DISTRICT--MINNEAPOLIS
The Ninth District economy grew modestly since the last report. Consumer spending,
services, energy, mining and residential construction and real estate saw slight increases.
Tourism was mixed, while manufacturing and commercial construction were stable.
Commercial real estate and agriculture were down. Softness in labor markets continued,
but the pace of weakening has slowed. Meanwhile, wages were stable and overall price
increases remained subdued.
Consumer Spending and Tourism
Overall consumer spending increased modestly. A Minnesota-based restaurant and bar
chain reported that recent same-store sales were above year-earlier levels. A movie
theater in Minnesota reported that ticket sales were up during January. In the
Minneapolis area, a “value-oriented” mall reported that traffic was up over 5 percent in
January compared with a year ago; however, a South Dakota mall reported that traffic
was down in January from last year, in large part due to inclement weather. A major
Minneapolis-based retailer reported that same-store sales in January were essentially flat
compared with a year earlier. A bank director noted that retailers have been willing to
take a lower margin on inventory to generate sales activity and cover costs where
possible. A representative of an auto dealers association in Montana observed that recent
business at a number of dealerships improved a bit. However, a Minnesota auto dealer
noted that sales of new and used vehicles in January were down substantially, but were
picking up somewhat during February. Winter tourism was mixed. A representative of a Minnesota travel agency
reported that leisure travel increased considerably in January compared with a year ago.
Favorable snow conditions helped boost lodging revenue in northwestern Wisconsin.
Recent ski visit numbers were relatively flat at a Montana ski resort, while lodging
revenue was down due to fewer guests and discounted pricing. Tourism activity was
down somewhat in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan, according to a tourism official.
Construction and Real Estate
Commercial construction was steady at low levels. The value of January nonresidential
permits in Rochester, Minn., increased from the same month a year earlier; commercial

 IX-2
permits in Fargo, N.D., were down from a year earlier. Meanwhile, a $20 million airport
terminal building in Duluth, Minn., was in the early stages of development. Residential
construction increased. The value of January residential permits in the Minneapolis-St.
Paul area increased 16 percent from a year ago. New residential permits in Sioux Falls,
S.D., increased 15 percent in value in January from the previous year, and remodeling
activity increased as well. Commercial real estate continued its slump. Overall vacancy for office, retail and
industrial properties in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area reached its highest level in nearly
20 years, even with large decreases in lease prices; the retail sector was particularly hard
hit. A commercial real estate firm in South Dakota noted that occupancy was down
slightly and businesses were staying with current leases as opposed to expanding. A
commercial real estate broker in Fargo said markets there were flat. The residential real estate market saw continued signs of improvement. The
January median sales price in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area increased more than 1
percent from the previous January, the first year-over-year increase in 41 months. Home
sales in Bismarck, N.D., and Sioux Falls increased as well.
Services
Overall activity increased in the professional business services sector since the last report.
Contacts from information technology firms reported solid orders but noted some
difficulties in collecting fees. Web development firms reported improved activity with
backlogs ranging from a few weeks to a few months. A contact from a health care firm
indicated that demand for core services was solid, while orders for elective procedures
were soft. A bank director noted that legal fees were flat to down from a year ago. A
Minnesota architectural firm’s recent revenue was lower than a year ago.
Manufacturing
Manufacturing output was flat since the last report. A January survey of purchasing
managers by Creighton University (Omaha, Neb.) showed that manufacturing activity
was relatively level in Minnesota and the Dakotas. An electronic equipment maker in
North Dakota reduced production at two plants. A Montana cement maker restarted
production after a three-month shutdown. A plastic pipe producer plans to start a plant in
South Dakota.

 IX-3
Energy and Mining
Activity in the energy and mining sectors increased since the last report. Mid-February oil
exploration increased from mid-December. Wind energy projects are under construction in
the western portion of the District. Meanwhile, activity at Montana copper, platinum and
gold mines was brisk during the past few months. Permits were issued for a copper and
nickel mill processing facility in the Upper Peninsula. January iron ore production was
estimated to have increased slightly from December 2009 levels.
Agriculture
Agricultural activity was down. The Minneapolis Fed’s fourth-quarter (January) survey
of agricultural credit conditions indicated that lenders expect overall agricultural income
and spending to decrease in the first quarter. Several winter storms rolled though the
District since the last report, causing stress on livestock.
Employment, Wages and Prices
Softness in labor markets continued, but the pace of weakening has slowed. Minnesota
unemployment insurance claims were up about 3 percent in January compared with a
year earlier; however, increases in unemployment insurance claims have leveled off
during the past three months. A medical insurer in Minnesota recently announced plans to
lay off 150 employees, while a financial firm announced plans to cut 25 positions in
South Dakota. By contrast, a business that processes employee applications in Minnesota
will hire an additional 50 employees, and a bank recently announced plans to hire more
brokers. Wage rates remained stable. A Montana bank director noted that most business
contacts in his area expect no increases in wages or benefits in 2010. Overall price increases remained subdued, with some noted exceptions. Bank
directors reported price increases in freight and health care costs, and some price hikes in
plastics and other petroleum-based products. Meanwhile, construction inputs and bidding
prices were down. Some decreases in fertilizer and herbicide prices were expected for the
upcoming year. Minnesota gasoline prices were down about 15 cents per gallon in mid-
February from mid-January.

 X-1 TENTH DISTRICT - KANSAS CITY The Tenth District economy showed further signs of modest growth in January and
February. However, some unexpected weakness was noted in several sectors of the District
economy due to bad weather. Consumer spending was flat compared to year ago levels with
continued softness in auto sales. Manufacturing activity expanded but did not translate into
additional factory hiring. Residential real estate markets continued to benefit from tax credits,
while commercial real estate weakened further. District banks reported continued weak loan
demand. Energy firms expanded drilling activity, especially for natural gas. In agriculture,
growing conditions remained favorable for crops, while profit margins improved for livestock
producers. Despite higher input prices, retail prices remained unchanged and little evidence of
wage pressures was reported in District labor markets. Consumer Spending. District retailers reported that sales in January and February were
weaker than expected and flat relative to last year. Retailers with highly seasonal post-holiday
sales noted particular weakness. Some District retailers, especially mall operators, attributed the
weakness in sales to winter storms. Retailers nonetheless remained optimistic that a rebound in
retail activity will occur in the coming quarter. Light car and truck sales remained in a
downward trend but inventories continued to decline and few auto dealers expressed concern
with excess inventory levels. The lodging industry noted improved hotel occupancy rates in the
January and February survey period. Some hoteliers indicated that the occupancy bounce was
likely seasonal in nature but reported improved expectations for both occupancy and room rates.
Mountain resort markets registered only a modest rebound in winter tourism relative to year ago
activity. Manufacturing and Other Business Activity. The Tenth District’s manufacturing and
transportation sectors expanded further, although high-tech firms reported weaker business
conditions. District manufacturers reported increased production, shipment volumes, and new
orders in the latest survey period. District manufacturing activity has increased steadily since last
September and production has returned to near year ago levels. Manufacturers remained
optimistic that new orders would be higher in six months; however backlogs were minimal and
well below year ago levels. Few manufacturing firms increased hiring, though expectations for

 X-2
future hiring improved markedly in the latest survey period. Transportation firms reported a
strong cyclical rebound in business activity consistent with continued stabilization in overall
District activity. High-tech firms noted weaker business activity along with subdued
expectations for improved business conditions in the coming quarter. Current and future
expectations of capital spending activity among high-tech firms also diminished in the survey
period. The lack of venture capital funding remained a concern for high-tech companies,
especially among alternative energy and software development firms. Real Estate and Construction. Residential real estate activity improved slightly while
commercial real estate continued to deteriorate. Residential builders reported increased building
permits and housing starts. Sales in residential real estate increased modestly but home prices in
the District remained flat. Demand remained strong for starter homes but the strength was not
expected to continue once the homebuyer tax credit expires in April. Upper end home sales
remained depressed. Mortgage refinancing activity decreased amid increasing interest rates.
Construction supply firms noted increased activity in residential construction but no movement
in commercial. Commercial real estate respondents reported anemic conditions, including
decreasing sales volumes, rents and prices, and increasing vacancy rates with little to no
expectation of conditions improving in the next quarter. Weakness in commercial construction
during the survey period was attributed to poor weather in January and February, while tight
lending conditions continued to be cited throughout the industry as an impediment to long run
growth. Real estate and construction contacts reported limited contribution from stimulus-
funded projects to business activity or hiring in the reporting period. Banking. Bankers reported lower loan demand, unchanged deposits, and a slightly
improved outlook for loan quality. Overall loan demand declined at about the same pace as in
the previous survey. Demand fell moderately for commercial and industrial loans, commercial
real estate loans, and consumer installment loans. Demand for residential real estate loans
declined modestly. A few banks tightened credit standards on commercial real estate loans but
credit standards for other loan categories were little changed. Somewhat fewer banks than in the
previous survey reported a decline in loan quality from a year ago. Respondents were also
slightly less pessimistic about loan quality in the next six months. For the second consecutive
survey, deposits were unchanged. A few respondents said they had little incentive to obtain

 X-3
deposits due to lack of loan demand. Energy. Energy industry activity continued to expand in the latest reporting period.
Natural gas producers expressed cautious optimism that a near term floor had been established
for natural gas prices but remained concerned that expanding supplies from shale gas production
would push prices down in the future. District rig counts continued to increase in the latest
reporting period with improved expectations for drilling-related capital expenditures in the
coming quarter. New drilling activity was largely concentrated in horizontal gas wells in
Oklahoma. Wyoming coal production remained more than ten percent below year ago levels. Agriculture. Agricultural conditions improved since the last survey period. The winter
wheat crop was reported in generally good condition with limited reports of freeze damage due to
frigid temperatures and variable snow cover. Extreme winter weather contributed to below
average weight gain for cattle and caused producers to provide supplemental feed. Cattle and
hog prices strengthened in recent weeks, boosting profit opportunities. Crop prices edged down
from their post-harvest peaks. Still, cropland values strengthened following the bumper fall
harvest. Ranchland values, however, remained below year-ago levels amid weak demand for
pasture ground. Stronger farm incomes led to a rise in loan repayment rates and fewer reports of
loan renewals and extensions. District contacts reported ample funds were available for farm
loans at historically low interest rates. Wages and Prices. Raw materials prices increased although selling prices and wages
remained flat. District manufacturers reported raw materials prices pushed above year ago levels
in the latest survey period. Two-thirds of District manufacturers expected the upward trend in
raw materials prices to continue into the next six months. Selling prices remained flat across the
District since the last survey period but were generally below a year ago. Most respondents
expected prices to hold steady over the next few months. Firms continued to report little
evidence of wage pressures across District labor markets and did not expect any pressure in the
near future.

 XI-1 ELEVENTH DISTRICT—DALLAS Economic activity improved further in the Eleventh District over the past six weeks. Firms across
a wide range of industries continued to report slight increases in demand. However, conditions in a few
sectors, notably commercial real estate, financial services and construction-related manufacturing
remained weak. Outlooks were generally more upbeat than last time. Prices Price pressures remained minimal across industries. Most contacts said prices were
holding steady, although a few firms noted they were making concessions in order to get business. Raw
material prices were mostly stable, but there were reports of an uptick in the cost of fiber and some
industrial metals. Most firms that saw an uptick in raw material costs said they were unable to pass on
these increases to customers. Energy prices declined slightly from early January to mid-February. Crude oil prices trended
downward from $82 to $79 per barrel. On-highway diesel prices followed suit, falling nearly 10 cents
over the same period. Natural gas prices slipped from $6 per thousand cubic feet to near $5, even as
colder-than-normal weather trimmed bloated inventories back to near-normal levels. Contacts say that the
approaching end of winter is keeping natural gas prices relatively steady. In contrast, prices of chemicals
and related products rose during the reporting period. Labor Market Most respondents noted steady employment levels. Still, there were scattered
reports of layoffs at selected retail, high-tech, emergency vehicle and construction-related manufacturing
firms. On a positive note, staffing firms continued to report increased hiring activity. In addition, there
were reports of an uptick in staff levels at some energy service, food, high-tech and transportation
manufacturing firms. Wage pressures were nonexistent. A few firms reported they either had already given, or planned
on giving small pay increases to employees this year. In contrast, real estate contacts noted that people
were taking jobs at reduced salaries. Manufacturing Construction-related manufacturers report that demand continues to bounce
along the bottom. There is excess capacity in the industry and margins remain depressed. The outlook is
still bleak, especially for manufacturers tied to commercial construction. Fabricated metals producers
noted a slight uptick in orders, however, demand remains below year-ago levels. Reports from transportation manufacturers were mixed. Producers of trailers reported steady
demand over the past month, but said that orders were up both from three months and year-ago levels.
Emergency vehicle manufacturers noted a cut back in production, and added that the outlook had
weakened. An automobile manufacturer reported that sales in Texas are holding up better than in other
parts of the country and the outlook is “bright”, with steady growth expected throughout the year.

 XI-2 Reports from the paper industry were mixed. A large corrugated box manufacturer reported a
moderate pickup in demand while other contacts, especially those tied to the construction sector, noted
continued weakness. Respondents expect 2010 to be stronger than last year. Food manufacturers cited an
increase in demand over the past month, and reported a positive sales outlook for the year. High-tech manufacturers report continued strong growth in orders and production. Demand for
semiconductors remains solid, and respondents say they are struggling to keep up with demand.
Inventories are at very lean levels, and most contacts expect demand to remain robust over the next three
to six months. Petrochemical demand was mixed. Demand for products tied to domestic manufacturing rose
further, while producers that sell to residential and commercial construction said domestic sales remained
weak. Export demand is still strong due to the cost advantage of U.S. natural-gas based products over
foreign oil-based ones, but producers say that this cost advantage has narrowed in recent weeks. Depressed demand for refined products has further weakened margins, and contacts say refiners
are responding with further cuts in utilization rates. Currently rates are below 80 percent, which excluding
weather-related shut-ins, are among the lowest utilization rates over the past twenty-five years. Retail Retail demand held up relatively well during the reporting period. Contacts say year-
over-year sales have improved, however, comparisons are favorable because of the weakness in year-ago
numbers. Department store results were slightly better than expected. Consumers remain price conscious.
Outlooks are still cautious, and contacts expect only a modest improvement in business this year. Automobile dealers report seasonal softness in sales over the past six weeks. Inventories remain
lean, and contacts expect gradual improvement in sales throughout the year. Services Staffing firms report continued improvement in demand. Orders are streaming in at a
solid pace and billable hours are up. Demand is still largely for contract work, but direct hire placements
have recently picked up from low levels. Staffing industry contacts were more upbeat in their outlook
compared with the previous reporting period. Contacts in accounting services say strong demand for tax and audit services is outpacing
continued weakness in advisory and performance improvement services. Demand for legal services
remains sluggish. Reports from transportation service firms are mixed. Intermodal firms report no change in cargo
volumes over the past month as the rise in exports is being offset by a decline in imports. Contacts in
railroad transportation cite a widespread increase in cargo volumes, and noted that the outlook is more
upbeat than last time. Airline demand appears to be recovering, with leisure travel seeing continued
growth, business travel improving and fares stabilizing. Contacts note that demand for air travel is
expected to be flat to slightly up this year.

 XI-3 Construction and Real Estate Housing contacts said new home construction picked up
recently in response to relatively tight inventories and the first-time homebuyer tax credit. In both new
and existing home markets, sales of lower priced homes remained the strongest. Sales of higher priced
homes were weak, reflecting difficulties in obtaining financing for larger loans. Builder outlooks were
slightly more optimistic for 2010. Commercial real estate activity remains depressed. There is continued downward pressure on
rents. Office leasing activity is still falling, albeit at a slower pace. Demand for industrial space declined
further in Dallas, but improved slightly in Houston. Investment sales transactions remain low due to the
tight lending environment, but contacts report that investors are watching closely for bargains.
Commercial construction activity is still weak and outlooks remain grim, with most contacts expecting no
improvement until 2011. Financial Services Financial service firms continued to report feeble demand for consumer and
commercial loans. Real estate lending remained scarce due to stringent regulatory requirements, and
contacts at community banks expressed concern about the possible effects of these regulatory
requirements on their ability to expand. Some contacts said they were beginning to see an improvement in
loan quality, with falling delinquencies and declining charge-offs. The outlook remained cautious but
some contacts were hopeful that they may see a pickup in loan demand by year end. Energy Drilling activity rose strongly during the reporting period. Gas-directed drilling grew
faster than oil-directed activity, reversing the trend seen in prior months. Oil field activity has improved
along with the uptick in drilling, and contacts say capacity is beginning to tighten in selected lines of
activity and in some geographic areas. Contacts are hopeful that the current expansion will last through
the first half of 2010, as their customers continue to drill in order to secure leases, learn the new shale
technology or simply because they anticipate being profitable at current prices. Agriculture Heavy rains and snowfall have boosted crop and pasture conditions. There is
excellent subsoil moisture going into the spring planting season, which has improved the crop outlook for
2010. Though heavy precipitation has been beneficial, it has resulted in some crop losses and could delay
spring planting if fields do not dry out in time. Livestock are in fair to good condition, and producers are
using supplemental feeding to compensate for the harsh winter weather and wet pasture conditions.

 XII - 1 TWELFTH DISTRICT–SAN FRANCISCO
Summary Economic activity in the Twelfth District appeared to increase modestly during the reporting
period of early January through late February. Upward pressures on prices and wages remained quite
limited. Sales of retail items and services generally stayed at low levels, but both showed some
improvement. Manufacturing activity was mixed but appeared to pick up further on balance. Sales
continued to expand for agricultural producers, while demand for energy resources fell. Home demand
appeared to be little changed from the previous period, but demand for commercial real estate continued
to slide. Contacts from financial institutions reported that loan demand was largely unchanged and credit
standards remained tight.
Wages and Prices Upward price pressures were very modest on net during the reporting period. Commodity prices
were stable or down in general, with declines noted for natural gas, copper, and aluminum. Weak
demand continued to hold down prices for various services and most retail items, with extensive
discounting reported for the latter. Nearly three-fourths of respondents anticipate that prices for the goods
and services sold in their respective industries will remain largely stable during 2010; of the remainder,
the number expecting declines was slightly higher than the number expecting increases. Contacts in most sectors characterized wages as essentially flat, although some businesses
reported significant increases in the costs of employee benefits, especially for health insurance. Upward
wage pressures were limited by high unemployment and restricted hiring in most sectors and regions. An
overwhelming majority of respondents expect no change in their firm’s employment counts for at least
the first half of the year, and they expect limited hiring to hold down wage pressures going forward.
Retail Trade and Services Retail sales continued to firm but remained sluggish on net. Both discount chains and traditional
department stores reported sales increases, with scattered reports pointing to a slight pickup in consumers’
appetites for discretionary spending. Sales were characterized as flat for grocers and retailers of furniture,

 XII - 2
appliances, and electronic items. New automobile sales slipped somewhat, although the reports suggested
that consumer interest rose in recent weeks, perhaps signaling improved sales in the near term. For used
automobiles, reduced availability held back sales somewhat and caused prices to rise. Unit sales of
gasoline were running slightly below their levels from 12 months earlier, despite modest price declines in
recent weeks. Demand for services continued to be weak overall but showed signs of improvement since the
last reporting period. Sales remained sluggish for providers of professional and media services, although
scattered increases in demand were noted for some categories. Similarly, restaurants and other food-
service firms stated that they are slowly seeing signs of recovery in demand. Providers of health-care
services reported an increase in patient volumes. Conditions remained challenging for businesses in the
tourism and leisure sector, although further signs of improvement were reported: contacts in Southern
California and Seattle noted that hotel occupancy rates appear to have stabilized, while contacts in Hawaii
and Las Vegas noted ongoing increases in visitor volumes.
Manufacturing District manufacturing activity remained mixed but picked up further on balance during the
reporting period of early January through late February. Demand strengthened further for manufacturers
of semiconductors, with high levels of capacity utilization and balanced inventories noted. New orders
continued to be very limited for makers of commercial aircraft and parts, but the existing order backlog
helped keep production activity at or near the prior pace. Demand and capacity utilization for metal
fabricators remained at exceptionally low levels. Manufacturers of wood products also continued to face
very weak demand, although a slight pickup was noted. Activity at petroleum refineries remained well
below the five-year average levels, prompting refinery closures or sales in some cases.
Agriculture and Resource-related Industries Sales grew further for agricultural products, but demand declined a bit for extractors of natural
resources used for energy production. Sales rose for assorted crops and livestock products, and reports
indicated that inputs were readily available. Contacts noted that favorable weather, including substantial

 XII - 3
moisture, have enhanced production conditions for crops and livestock. Oil extraction activity and capital
spending in that industry continued to be held down by weak global demand, while demand for natural
gas slid a bit as a result of unseasonably warm weather in some parts of the District.
Real Estate and Construction Demand for housing appeared to be little changed on net, while demand for commercial real
estate slid further. The pace of home sales was mixed across areas but appeared to be largely unchanged
after adjusting for normal seasonal variation. Home prices reportedly rose a bit further in some areas of
the District. However, the number of available homes for sale remained elevated, which substantially
offset builders’ incentives to increase the pace of new home construction. Demand slid further for
commercial real estate, and tenants continued to push for and often achieve rent concessions and other
favorable terms through renegotiation of existing leases. However, one contact noted an increase in
leasing activity in some segments of the major markets in the District, as well as slightly improved
availability of financing for new commercial development and investment transactions.
Financial Institutions Reports from District banking contacts indicated that loan demand was largely unchanged from
the prior reporting period. Consumer loan demand remained weak on net, and commercial and industrial
loan volumes continued at low levels, as business owners remained quite cautious about their capital
spending and hiring plans. Lending standards continued to be relatively restrictive for most types of
consumer and business loans, and contacts reported further loan losses. Venture capital financing
remained a bright spot, with contacts noting further improvements in levels of investment funds and IPO
activity.

