National Summary The Beige Book ■ January 2017
Overall Economic Activity
Reports from the twelve Federal Reserve Districts indicated that the economy continued to expand at a modest pace
across most regions from late November through the end of the year. Manufacturers in most Districts reported in-
creased sales with several citing a turnaround versus earlier in 2016. Growth in the energy industry was mixed; two
Districts reported weakness in coal production but others reported improvements in coal, oil, or gas activity. Most Dis-
tricts said that non-auto retail sales had expanded, but several noted that sales over the holiday season were disap-
pointing and reports in more than one District suggested that growth in e-commerce had come at the expense of bricks
-and-mortar retailers. All Districts reported varying degrees of growth in employment and a majority described their
labor markets as tight. Residential construction and sales were generally mixed, although San Francisco reported
strong real estate market activity throughout the 12th District. Financial conditions were stable. Firms across the coun-
try and industries were said to be optimistic about growth in 2017.
Employment and Wages
Labor markets were reported to be tight or tightening during the period. Employment growth ranged from slight to mod-
erate and most Districts indicated that wages increased modestly. A couple of Districts mentioned layoffs, but even in
those Districts, as in other regions, most responding firms were said to have added employment, on net. District reports
cited widespread difficulties in finding workers for skilled positions; several also noted problems recruiting for less-
skilled jobs. Wages in some Districts were pushed up a bit by increases in the states’ minimum wages and most Dis-
tricts said wage pressures had increased. Many Districts said contacts expect labor markets to continue to tighten in
2017, with wage pressures likely to rise and the pace of hiring to hold steady or increase.
Prices
Pricing pressures intensified somewhat since the last report. Eight out of twelve Districts saw modest price increases
and the remainder experienced slight increases, or flat prices in the case of the Atlanta District. Increases in input costs
were more widespread than increases in final goods prices. Cost increases were reported for coal, natural gas, and
selected building and manufacturing materials. Retailers’ selling prices were mixed, but on balance were flat or down
amidst competitive discounting. Prices of most agricultural commodities stayed flat at very low levels. Home prices
were stable or up modestly. Businesses in several districts reportedly expect further modest increases in input costs
and selling prices in 2017.
Highlights by Federal Reserve District
Boston New York
Economic activity in the First District expanded at a Economic activity has held steady. Labor markets re-
modest to moderate pace in the final weeks of 2016. mained tight and wages continued to grow moderately.
Firms undertaking hiring cited difficulties finding employ- Input cost increases have become increasingly wide-
ees; a contact in the restaurant industry, in particular, spread, and selling prices have increased at a somewhat
noted worker shortages. At the same time, most employ- faster pace. Housing markets have continued to weaken
ers said they were not raising wages substantially. Busi- at the high end, while commercial real estate markets
ness contacts remained optimistic about 2017. have slackened. 1

 National Summary
Philadelphia St. Louis
Overall economic activity appeared to pick up to a mod- Economic conditions in the Eighth District continued to
est pace of growth in the Third District with nonauto retail expand at a modest pace. On a positive note, District
sales, nonfinancial services, and manufacturing provid- contacts anticipate an uptick in consumer spending
ing the boost from the prior period of slight growth. Hiring activity in early 2017. Conversely, low commodity prices
also rose to a modest pace, and tightening labor markets continue to put many agricultural parts of the District
sustained modest pressure on wages and prices. under financial stress.
Cleveland Minneapolis
Economic activity in the Fourth District grew slightly. Economic activity in the Ninth District grew modestly.
Labor markets showed signs of tightening. Upward Consumer spending was lower than expected through
pressure on selling prices increased. Retail sales disap- the holidays, though winter tourism started well. Manu-
pointed, while motor vehicle unit sales increased. Resi- facturing activity picked up, and the outlook for the sector
dential and commercial construction activity remains appeared more optimistic. Commercial construction held
elevated. Activity in the energy sector edged higher, and steady at high levels, but heavy and residential construc-
manufacturing output was little changed. tion lagged. Homes sales were strong in most regions.
Richmond Kansas City
Economic activity increased at a moderate pace on Economic activity in the Tenth District expanded modest-
balance, with strengthening in the manufacturing sector. ly in late November and December. Consumer spending
Retail sales also grew at a faster pace since the previous increased, and contacts expected moderately higher
report. Real estate agents reported strong industrial sales in the months ahead. Manufacturing production,
leasing, with more e-commerce tenants looking for large shipments, and new orders grew at their fastest pace in
facilities. Stronger multi-family construction was reported over two years. The energy sector expanded further, and
in Washington, D.C., Charlotte, North Carolina, and higher energy prices led to continued optimism in the
Charleston, South Carolina. sector.
Atlanta Dallas
Economic activity expanded modestly. Retailers cited an Economic activity grew moderately in the Eleventh Dis-
increase in sales. Home prices increased modestly. trict, and outlooks were more optimistic than the previous
Commercial real estate contacts continued to indicate report. The energy sector noted improved demand and
improving demand. Manufacturers noted an increase in an uptick in employment, following depressed activity for
new orders and production. The labor market remained nearly two years. Manufacturing activity expanded,
tight and wages were stable. Non-labor input costs re- although job growth remained weak. Retail sales contin-
mained relatively unchanged. ued to be weak in energy-related and peso-sensitive areas.
Chicago
Growth in the Seventh District continued at a modest San Francisco
pace. Manufacturing production grew at a robust rate, Economic activity in the Twelfth District continued to
business spending grew at a moderate rate, consumer expand at a moderate pace. Holiday retail sales picked
spending increased modestly, and construction and real up, and activity in the services sector remained strong.
estate activity edged up. Financial conditions improved Conditions in the agricultural sector were mixed, while
some, prices increased modestly, and farm incomes activity in the manufacturing sector was stable. Contacts
were little changed. reported strong activity in the housing market and mod- erate growth in overall lending activity. 2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Boston The Beige Book ■ January 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Business activity continued to expand in the First District at the close of 2016. Both retailers and manufacturers cited
modest to moderate increases in revenues in recent weeks compared with a year earlier. Software and information
services firms reported strong order increases in the fourth quarter. Commercial real estate markets were mostly steady
in the region; in the Boston area office rents increased and sales prices for commercial properties were stable. Residen-
tial real estate markets across the region continued to experience increases in both sales and prices. Although none
sought substantial additions to headcount, a number of firms reported difficulty finding workers to fill openings. Prices
were largely stable. Most responding firms cited a positive outlook, expecting end-of-year growth rates to continue in
2017.
Employment and Wages Retail and Tourism
Contacts in multiple sectors mentioned tightening labor Retail contacts consulted for this round reported that
markets. For example, one retailer reported that their sales growth was generally good between mid-
firm’s labor costs went up 5 percent in 2016 because November and early January. In one case, this more
they had to pay more to attract workers and they faced positive recent trend made up for lower-than-expected
state-mandated minimum wage increases. A majority of sales earlier in 2016, which were partly driven by weath-
manufacturing contacts reported that they were actively er. Apparel sales were up, but demand for hardware
recruiting and half indicated that they were struggling to items was reported to be down. Two respondents con-
find workers. Manufacturers’ mentions of hiring difficulty cluding their fiscal years on December 31 reported 2016
extended across both skilled and unskilled workers and sales increases ranging from 1 percent to just over 3
appeared to be an issue all across the region, including percent. Another contact cited preliminary 2016 sales
western Massachusetts, central Connecticut, and Rhode increases in the mid-single digit range. Continued mod-
Island, as well as the Boston area. Software and IT est sales growth is expected for 2017.
services respondents kept headcounts relatively stable A contact in the restaurant industry reported that sales in
this past quarter and raised wages by mid-single digit December were generally good, which he indicated
percentages. serves as a positive predictor for the next couple of
Prices months, as customers spend gift cards purchased during
Retailers reported that input and selling prices remained the holiday season. Locally owned restaurants were said
generally steady. Manufacturing contacts similarly did to be doing better than the larger publicly-traded chain
not report exceptional pricing pressure from either cus- outlets. This respondent expected that overall restaurant
tomers or suppliers. A global supply glut of selected sales will be up 1 to 2 percent for 2016. Looking forward,
chemicals reduced prices of both those chemicals and there was concern that a tight labor market combined
products made with them. A supplier to the auto industry with increases required by minimum wage laws will stifle
expressed concern that high levels of inventory in the restaurant expansion and job growth over the next few
auto business would lead to discounting and, in turn, years, and some sense that this trend has already start-
price-cutting pressure on suppliers as occurred in the ed. Restaurant expansion may also be limited by rising
mid-2000s. real estate costs. A-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Boston
Manufacturing and Related Services estimated that office rents in greater Boston increased
All eight manufacturers contacted this cycle reported 10 percent on average in 2016. Apartment construction
higher sales versus the same period a year earlier. A activity slowed in recent months in both Boston and
sporting goods manufacturer reported robust year-over- Portland, while office construction was stable at a slow
year sales increases in the fall but does not expect that pace in Boston and minimal in the rest of the region.
pace to continue. A manufacturer and retailer of furniture The outlook among contacts was cautiously optimistic,
reported that sales slowed in mid-November but recov- with significant uncertainty related to domestic politics.
ered in the balance of the year and were up slightly Contacts across the District expected capitalization rates
versus the year-earlier period. A toy maker reported to increase in 2017 to keep pace with rising interest
exceptionally strong sales in the fourth quarter. A manu- rates, noting that such increases imply that rents will
facturer of components for capital goods said that the have to increase and/or valuations will have to decrease.
second half of 2016 was better than the first half. On balance, contacts anticipated that property values will
Most respondents reported higher capital expenditures remain flat in 2017. Apartment construction activity was
but none reported major revisions to spending plans. expected to slow further in coming months as borrowing
Information technology remained a major area of capital costs continue to rise and lending terms continue to
expenditure for several firms. A manufacturer of compo- tighten, but prospects for new office construction ap-
nents for capital goods said that new technologies were peared brighter for 2017 in light of rising office rents and
allowing firms to get more out of existing equipment and low office vacancy rates around the region.
that this was depressing capital expenditures. Residential Real Estate
All the contacted manufacturers cited a positive outlook Continuing recent trends, residential real estate markets
notwithstanding some uncertainty about the impact of in the First District showed robust increases in sales and
possible policy changes by the new administration. prices relative to last year. Closed sales for single-family homes and condos increased in all six First District
Software and Information Technology Services states as well as in the Boston metro area (five of the six
Contacts in software and IT services—with a very limited First District states and Boston reported changes from
number of respondents—reported mixed revenue results November 2015 to November 2016; Maine reported on
near the end of 2016, but strong demand in Q4. A October 2015 to October 2016). Massachusetts record-
healthcare software firm reported a slight decline in 2016 ed the most closed sales on record for the month of
revenue from 2015, though they attributed this to ac- November. As usual, many contacts cited falling invento-
counting changes more than a real decline in business. ries as an issue: inventories decreased year-over-year in
They experienced a “huge” Q4 for new orders, and thus every reporting region. A contact in Massachusetts re-
were gearing up for a strong 2017. The contact identified ported that “with such little inventory, buyers needed to
uncertainty surrounding the future of the Affordable Care be quick with their best offers from the start.”
Act as a possible headwind for their hospital clients. An
IT firm selling to manufacturers summed up 2016 as “a Home prices also rose year-over-year. For single-family
stable year after a rocky 2015.” They reported high sin- homes, the median sales price increased in every report-
gle-digit growth in bookings in Q4 over last year. The ing region. The same was true for condos, except in
contact was hopeful that manufacturing will continue to Vermont where prices decreased slightly.
recover in the coming year, possibly including tailwinds Overall, contacts were optimistic about the outlook for
from the incoming administration. However, they ex- the end of the year and into 2017. Many said rising inter-
pressed concern about a resurging U.S dollar. est rates would stimulate buyers to make offers at the
Commercial Real Estate end of 2016, but they did not expect further moderate
Conditions in commercial real estate markets across the increases in interest rates to restrain the region’s con-
First District were stable in recent weeks. Office leasing sistently strong buyer demand.■
activity was steady or modestly slower in the region’s
major metro areas. Investment sales activity and sales
prices for prime commercial properties in Boston were For more information about District economic conditions visit:
also stable, as foreign investors were undeterred by www.bostonfed.org/regional-economy
higher interest rates and a stronger dollar. One contact A-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of New York The Beige Book ■ January 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Economic activity in the Second District has held steady since the last report, while labor markets have remained fairly
tight. There have been increasingly widespread increases in input costs and scattered signs of a pickup in selling prices.
Manufacturers indicated that business rebounded following an autumn slump, while service-sector contacts reported
steady to moderately expanding activity. Consumer spending has been mixed, even as consumer confidence climbed to
a multi-year high. Housing markets have been mixed, with weakness continuing at the high end, and commercial real
estate markets were steady to somewhat slacker. Residential construction was sluggish, while there has been some
pickup in office and especially industrial construction. Banks reported that both loan demand and delinquency rates
were steady to moderately improved.
Employment and Wages service sector contacts noted only scattered increases.
The labor market has remained fairly tight, while hiring Both manufacturers and service firms also said they
activity has been mixed. Businesses in most service anticipate increasingly widespread cost increases in the
industries reported that they have been hiring, on net, months ahead. Retailers generally maintained that sell-
while manufacturers indicated that they are keeping ing prices were steady to down slightly. Broadway thea-
headcounts steady. On balance, contacts said they plan ters reported that ticket prices have increased by consid-
to increase headcounts in the months ahead, particularly erably more than the seasonal norm during this past
manufacturers. Contacts at employment agencies re- holiday season.
mained fairly upbeat about the job market, though they Consumer Spending
said it was hard to judge during this typically slow sea- Retail merchandise sales were mixed but generally
son. Still, an upstate New York agency noted that hiring sluggish in November and December. Two major chains
remained fairly strong longer into December than usual reported that same-store sales were down moderately
and a New York City agency reported that hiring has from 2015 levels and below plan, though one noted that
picked up surprisingly early in January. its on-line sales were up by double-digit percentages. By
Contacts generally reported only a very modest pickup in contrast, business picked up for upstate New York retail-
wage growth, though contacts in service industries indi- ers. Cold weather reportedly boosted sales of winter
cated that they anticipate rising wages in the months apparel and outerwear. Despite the disappointing sales
ahead—particularly in education and health, retail, performance, inventories were said to be at reasonably
wholesale and distribution industries. Though New York satisfactory levels. Retail contacts were generally not
State raised its minimum wage structure on January 1, it very optimistic about the near-term sales outlook.
is too early to assess its effects. Auto dealers in upstate New York reported that sales of
Prices new and used vehicles picked up in the final two months
Business contacts reported some pickup in both input of the year. Inventories of new vehicles have remained
prices and selling prices. Manufacturing contacts noted on the high side. Retail and wholesale credit conditions
particularly widespread price increases, while most were reported to be in good shape. B-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of New York
Consumer confidence in the Middle Atlantic states (NY, Commercial real estate markets were steady to some-
NJ, PA) surged in December, reaching its highest level what slacker in November and December. Office availa-
in more than nine years. bility rates rose modestly in upstate New York, Long Island, Westchester and Fairfield counties, while rates
Manufacturing and Distribution remained steady in New York City and Northern New
Manufacturers reported that business activity has picked Jersey. Asking rents for office space were flat to up
up noticeably since the last report and expressed in- modestly in most of the District, though they declined in
creased optimism about the near-term outlook. Similarly, upstate New York. In contrast, the market for industrial
businesses in the wholesale trade and transportation space has shown continued strength. Across the New
industries reported widespread improvement in business York City metro area, industrial vacancy rates have
activity and were increasingly optimistic about future declined further and rents have risen fairly sharply. In
business conditions. upstate New York, though, vacancy rates have been
Services mostly flat, and rents have edged lower.
Service-sector businesses reported steady to slightly New multi-family development has been weak in most of
improving business conditions since the last report. the District, except in northern New Jersey where it has
Looking ahead, these businesses were generally opti- held steady at a strong level. Single-family construction
mistic about the outlook—particularly those in the infor- has remained sluggish across the District. Office con-
mation and professional & business services sectors. struction has picked up somewhat in Manhattan but has
Tourism activity has remained sluggish, as hotel busi- been flat to down modestly across most of the District.
ness and Broadway theater attendance were flat to down
from a year earlier. Banking and Finance Small- to medium-sized banks reported strengthening
Real Estate and Construction demand for commercial mortgages but little change in
Housing markets have been mixed across the District demand for consumer loans, residential mortgages, and
since the last report, with weakness continuing at the commercial and industrial (C&I) loans. Bankers reported
high end. New York City’s rental market has weakened that credit standards were unchanged across all loan
noticeably, as rents for smaller units have leveled off, categories. No change was reported in spreads of loan
while rents of larger units have declined. Apartment rents rates over cost of funds across all loan categories except
elsewhere have been mostly flat of late, but still up mod- C&I, for which banks reported wider spreads. Bankers
estly from a year earlier. Rental vacancy rates have indicated lower delinquency rates for commercial mort-
increased in New York City, as well as across upstate gages and C&I loans but no change in delinquency rates
New York, while they have edged down in northern New for the remaining loan categories. ■
Jersey.
New York City’s co-op and condo resale market has also
weakened. Both sales activity and prices have slipped,
except on small and moderately priced units. Bidding
wars have become considerably less prevalent than
earlier in the year. Elsewhere across the District, condi-
tions have been more mixed. Home sales in the suburbs
around New York City picked up considerably, though
prices have remained fairly stable. In upstate New York,
the market is still characterized as quite strong. Sales
activity has been fairly robust for this time of year, inven-
tories have remained tight, prices have continued to
climb and sellers have continued to see multiple offers
above the listing price. In contrast, home prices have
remained generally flat in northern New Jersey, though
activity has picked up somewhat. For more information about District economic conditions visit: www.newyorkfed.org/data-and-statistics/regional-data- center/index.html B-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia The Beige Book ■ January 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Aggregate business activity in the Third District grew at a modest pace during the current Beige Book reporting period
— a bit faster than the prior period. Notable shifts in activity included nonfinancial services and existing home sales,
which improved to a moderate pace of growth. Four sectors — nonauto consumer spending, manufacturing, and non-
residential construction and leasing — improved to a modest pace of growth. Employment growth also picked up to a
modest pace. This pickup included manufacturing firms, which had been reporting job losses for much of the year.
Contacts continued to report that wages rose modestly as the labor market continued to tighten. On balance, general
prices also continued to grow at a modest pace. Overall, firms continued to expect moderate growth over the next six
months.
Employment and Wages Prices
Employment has picked up notably to a modest pace of On balance, price levels continued to rise modestly.
growth since the prior report. Manufacturing firms noted Although about 70 percent of the firms reported no
an increase in employment for the first time in a year, change at all in prices paid and prices received, more of
while average hours worked lengthened for the second the remaining firms reported increases than decreases.
consecutive month. Employment indicators from non- The differential was similar to last period for prices paid
manufacturing firms improved, as contacts reported but diminished for prices received.
increases in the use of full-time workers and part-time Retail analysts used the term “price deflation” to depict
hires and in workweek hours. the deep discounting of many retailers throughout the
However, descriptions from staffing firms were mixed, holiday sales period. Overall, home prices continued to
with Pennsylvania firms noting some quieter-than-normal rise slightly, although this varies across markets and
lulls around the holiday season, while a New Jersey firm price categories. Both residential and commercial devel-
reported finishing strong through year-end. opers have noted the high cost of developable land.
On balance, wage pressures continued to be modest Manufacturing
although the labor market has tightened for many occu- Overall, manufacturing firms reported modest growth —
pations, according to banking and staffing contacts. One noting improvements in general activity and shipments,
staffing contact described the labor market as tightening, for which over one-third of the firms reported increases.
with wages trending up and more turnover in mid-market New orders also continued to grow, but with somewhat
placements; the contact also noted that small business- fewer firms noting increases compared with the prior
es will have to raise wages to remain competitive. Manu- period.
facturing contacts estimated that wages and nonhealth
benefits would increase 2.0 percent to 2.5 percent in The makers of paper products, chemicals, and primary
2017 and that total compensation, including health bene- metal products noted overall gains in activity from the
fits, would rise 3.5 percent to 5.5 percent. prior period, while the makers of lumber products noted C-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia
weaker activity. Fabricated metals, industrial machinery, Commercial real estate loans and commercial and indus-
and electronics firms reported mixed results. trial loans continued to be two of the fastest growing loan categories; however, both grew at a slower pace than
More than half of the manufacturing contacts were opti- during the same period one year ago. Volumes of home
mistic that orders, shipping, and general activity would mortgages, home equity loans, auto loans, and other
grow over the next six months. Firms also expressed consumer loans were mostly unchanged over the current
broader optimism for future capital expenditures and Beige Book period.
employment. On balance, banking contacts continued to report
Consumer Spending healthy loan portfolios and improving customer credit
Nonauto retail sales grew modestly over the holiday quality. In addition, several contacts noted holding the
sales period, according to several analysts. They also line on their own credit standards against more lenient
noted that retailers offered heavy discounts on many terms and conditions offered by competitors.
items even before Black Friday and maintained these
bargains throughout the season. Our contacts anticipate Several contacts noted that the recent optimism and
that while some retailers succeeded in clearing their enthusiasm expressed by Main Street firms and Wall
shelves and creating the opportunity to restock with new Street investors have not yet translated into tangible
inventory, they may have constrained their profits. Cus- business investment. Overall, banking contacts contin-
tomers were described as “more savvy with technology” ued to express cautious optimism for slow, steady
and as spending more money per trip. growth, and are not yet convinced of potentially greater growth.
Auto dealers described light vehicle sales as holding
steady at high levels through year-end. Annual sales Real Estate and Construction
figures were estimated to finish slightly above those of On balance, homebuilders continued to report little
2015. For New Jersey, this meant a second consecutive change in activity. However, reports were mixed: Penn-
sales record. Generally, dealers do not expect an in- sylvania builders of mid-priced homes noted a pause in
crease in 2017 but hope sales will remain at or near activity, while a South Jersey builder of higher-priced
2016 levels. homes reported a pickup at year-end with strong back- logs going into January.
Tourism contacts generally indicated a continuation of
modest growth relative to the high levels of the prior Brokers in most major Third District housing markets
year. Philadelphia area hotels set records for a third reported an upsurge in home sales to a moderate pace
consecutive year. A shore location contact boasted an all but noted that this season accounts for a relatively low
-time record December — the third record month in the percentage of annual sales volume. Moreover, sales
past year. Mild winter weather helped boost traffic at continued to be constrained by very low inventory levels.
shore locations over the holidays, filling restaurants and Nonresidential real estate contacts covering much of the
retail shops. However, casino revenues in Atlantic City Third District reported that slow, steady incremental
continued to decline against prior-year levels. growth was supporting leasing (and pre-leasing) activity,
Nonfinancial Services falling vacancy rates, rising rents, and new construction.
Overall, Third District service-sector firms reported that Industrial/warehouse space is in greatest demand
activity picked up to a moderate pace of growth. Con- throughout the District. The market for office space is
tacts also noted that the pace of sales and new orders tightest in Philadelphia’s central business district, while
improved. However, reported expectations of future most suburban office markets are still strengthening. ■
growth have outpaced reports of current growth, though
falling shy of many other reports over the past six years.
Financial Services
Third District financial firms reported modest growth of
total loan volume, a bit off the moderate pace of the prior
Beige Book period. However, the significant seasonal For more information about District economic conditions visit:
increase in credit card volumes anticipated for the recent www.philadelphiafed.org/research-and-data/regional-
holiday period was much larger in 2016 than in 2015. economy C-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland The Beige Book ■ January 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Economic activity grew slightly on balance across the Fourth District since our last report. Labor markets continue to
show signs of tightening. Upward pressure on selling prices increased. Retailers reported disappointing same-store
sales through the early part of the holiday shopping season, while motor vehicle unit sales increased. Production at
manufacturing plants was stable. The housing market improved, with higher unit sales and higher prices. Commercial
builders reported some pull back in inquiries and backlogs. Reports indicated a healthy increase in upstream shale gas
activity. Coal production rose. Freight volume expanded over the period, but volume was flat compared to that of the
same time period a year ago.
Employment and Wages downs of domestic power plant coal inventories, the
Payrolls were little changed on balance since our last strengthening gas prices, and a firming in export prices
report. Job gains in banking were offset by losses in that was supported by continued tightness in internation-
construction and freight hauling. Staffing firms reported a al coal supplies. Shortages of homebuilding materials
slight improvement in the number of job openings and have been driving up prices, especially for concrete,
placements; healthcare professionals were in highest drywall, and framing lumber. Commercial building con-
demand. Job losses in manufacturing since late summer tractors saw rising prices for structural steel and rebar. A
have been stemmed. While not creating new positions, few retail chains reported reassessing their shelf prices
manufacturers are replacing employees who leave vol- because of intensifying price competition. New motor
untarily. Homebuilders and commercial contractors vehicle average transaction prices have risen about 1
reported temporary seasonal layoffs. The construction percent in the past year, but that number hides distinct
industry continues to experience some wage pressure, trends for cars and light trucks. Car prices have declined
especially from high-skilled workers. Staffing levels at because of rising dealer and OEM incentives. In con-
banks increased on net. Many bankers noted wage trast, light truck prices increased because of larger stick-
pressure at the entry level and for high-skilled jobs, citing er price increases and lower incentives. Upward pres-
competition from within and outside their industry. sure on freight hauling rates is expected during 2017 because implementing regulations associated with the
Prices new electronic logging requirements may lead to a tem-
Upward pressure on selling prices increased over the porary reduction in freight capacity.
period. Manufacturers reported widespread increases in
finished goods prices in response to rising raw-material Consumer Spending
costs, primarily for steel. Increasing wellhead prices for Retailers reported disappointing same-store sales
natural gas were attributed to the cold weather and stor- through the early part of the holiday shopping season.
age withdrawals. Coal prices rose in response to draw- The unusually warm weather was cited as driving down purchases of cold-weather items. An apparel chain noted D-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland
significant price competition from several competitors ed to seasonal factors and uncertainty leading up to the
who are in the process of liquidating. Another chain presidential election. General contractors are expecting
reported that although foot traffic has increased, price to see an increase in spending on infrastructure projects
declines for select product lines has resulted in flat sales and for warehousing and distribution centers. Many
in those lines. Going forward, traditional retailers expect general contractors reported raising billing rates to cover
little change in sales because of intensifying price com- higher material costs, especially for steel.
petition, especially from Internet sellers. Several contacts
reported cutting capital budgets because of weakening Banking Bankers reported that lending pipelines are relatively
sales. However, investment in e-commerce remains
strong. Year-to-date unit sales through November of new strong, but there is little organic growth. Several contacts
motor vehicles declined 1 percent when compared to the reported seasonal slowing in select product lines, espe-
year-earlier period. Light trucks continue to dominate cially on the retail side. The outlook is more positive
transactions. Used motor vehicle transactions have since the presidential election because some clients are expecting regulatory relief. One banker noted the first
increased about 3 percent. round of federal funds rate increases is unlikely to be
Manufacturing passed through to savers. However, future increases will
Factory output was little changed over the period, though likely result in higher interest rates paid on savings ac-
several contacts cited a seasonal downturn in new or- counts. Credit quality remains strong, and little change
ders. Activity for suppliers to the motor vehicle and con- was reported in loan-application standards. On the com-
struction industries remains elevated. Factors tempering mercial side, the strongest demand was for CRE loans.
output growth for other manufacturing industries include Reports from retail banking indicated that the highest
a general malaise in the industrial products market and demand was for auto loans and home equity products.
weakness in the energy sector. Year-to-date production Core deposit balances continued to increase.
through November at District auto assembly plants fell 5
percent when compared to that of the same time period Energy
during 2015. Car inventories remain significantly higher Reports showed a healthy increase in the number of
than those for light trucks. Steel producers reported permits issued and the number of drilling rigs operating
rising volumes, a situation which they attributed to lower in the Marcellus and Utica Shales during the past couple
imports. Capital spending increased slightly over the of months. Nonetheless, upstream activity is below lev- els seen two years ago. Natural gas output remains at
period, but a large share of the monies was allocated for
maintenance projects. Spending on new equipment and historic highs. Coal production continued to move higher
product development fell. Post-election confidence has as customers respond to their low inventories and im-
buoyed the outlook of many contacts; however, it re- proving market conditions for their products.
mains uncertain how potential changes in the regulatory Freight Transportation
environment ultimately will affect capital investment. Freight volume expanded over the period on balance
Real Estate and Construction and was attributed to a slowly improving economy. How-
Year-to-date unit sales through November of new and ever, volume was flat compared to that of the same time
existing single-family homes increased 5 percent com- period a year ago and was characterized as sluggish. As
pared to those of a year earlier. The average sales price a result, some carriers reduced staffing through attrition.
rose 4.5 percent. Homebuilders are concerned about Freight shipping rates were relatively stable, other than
rising interest rates and the affect they will have on con- select increases in the fuel surcharge. Capital spending
sumers’ willingness to purchase new homes. First-time- was primarily for new equipment. ■
buyer and first-move-up contracts moved higher, where-
as sales of high-end homes slowed. Year-to-date esti-
mates of single-family construction starts were much
higher in Ohio and Kentucky, but lower in Pennsylvania,
compared to a year earlier.
Although overall activity remains elevated, nonresidential
contractors reported a slowing in the number of inquiries
and a decline in backlogs, a situation which they attribut- D-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond The Beige Book ■ January 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Fifth District economic activity grew at a moderately faster pace since the previous Beige Book report. Reports were
strongly upbeat in early December, while assessments reported later in the month and in the surveys were more re-
strained. Demand for labor increased at a moderate pace, and reports of wage pressures were more common than
earlier. Price changes were generally mild, except at retail and services firms where prices received rose at a slightly
faster pace. The manufacturing sector strengthened and producers indicated moderate growth in new orders. Retail
sales rose briskly, while tourism at winter resorts strengthened to seasonal levels. Residential real estate activity was
little changed at seasonal levels. Commercial real estate leasing rose moderately and sales increased modestly. Resi-
dential and commercial loan demand was flat to slightly stronger in the weeks since the previous report. Revenue
growth at non-financial services firms remained modest. Indicators for agricultural and natural resource production were
mixed. modestly in recent weeks, and Northern and Central
Employment and Wages Appalachian coal prices edged slightly higher.
Labor demand increased at a moderate pace since the
previous Beige Book. District businesses reported mod- Manufacturing
est increases in wages, with more contacts reporting More manufacturers reported a rise in shipments and
increased wage pressures. The supply of well-qualified growth in backlogs since the previous report, as well as
workers, especially in the skilled trades, continued to be moderate growth in new orders. In addition, increased
a problem. A Virginia recruiter reported slightly stronger capacity utilization was more widespread. Producers of
demand for employees in customer service, health care, paper products, batteries, and office furniture reported
legal, and government positions. Staffing firms reported stronger overall business conditions. Manufacturing
that the volume of worker conversion from temporary to executives expected further strengthening during the
permanent remained at normal levels. A contact in next six months.
Charleston, South Carolina said companies there were
doing more direct hiring in recent weeks. Also a staffing Ports and Transportation
firm in West Virginia reported increased placement of The volume of container traffic rose moderately at two of
temporary workers due to high demand from manufac- the District’s ports since the previous report. At another
turers, especially in the automotive sector. port, container traffic increased by double digits every month in the fourth quarter, in part because of calls from
Prices larger, post-Panamax vessels. Imports of autos re-
Manufacturers reported that average input prices rose mained strong at one major port in recent weeks, while
modestly in recent weeks, with the exception of copper both imports and exports of farm and construction ma-
and stainless steel, which advanced more rapidly. Aver- chinery remained very weak. In addition, exports of
age manufacturing output prices increased only slightly. autos declined.
Services and retail prices continued to rise moderately A couple of national trucking firms in the District reported
and at a slightly faster pace than reported in our previous that demand for dedicated freight services increased
Beige Book. Cotton prices were unchanged while peanut moderately, as businesses locked in services to ensure
and corn prices remained low. Natural gas prices rose E-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
their freight needs will be met when an electronic log Banking and Finance
mandate becomes effective in late 2017. Loan demand was reported as stable or increasing slightly in recent weeks. On the residential mortgage
Retail, Travel, and Tourism side, demand for new originations was unchanged while
Retail sales rose briskly in recent weeks, with strong demand for refinancing rose modestly. A banker in West
shopper traffic and big-ticket sales. A sporting goods Virginia attributed the rise in refinance demand to antici-
store manager said his sales to large-scale customers, pated interest rate increases. Commercial loan demand
such as schools, were particularly strong. A wholesaler was described as stable overall, with reports of strength
of construction equipment and a chain store in the home in D.C., while West Virginia’s coal regions continued to
and garden business also reported that sales increased. be depressed. Business lending was unchanged; howev-
Contacts generally indicated that tourist activity strength- er lenders’ outlooks improved. One banker said there
ened to normal seasonal levels at winter resorts. In was an increase in optimism although most business
addition, a source on the outer banks of North Carolina owners were in a ‘wait and see mode.’ Reports on core
said tourist stays were above year-ago levels. However, deposit growth were mixed. A Virginia banker reported
an hotelier in western North Carolina reported a softer strong growth in core deposits while a West Virginia
market in his area. banker reported a slight decline. Credit standards were unchanged or slightly tighter while credit quality was
Real Estate and Construction stable. In West Virginia, however, quality declined slight-
Residential real estate sales were flat since the previous ly and past-due payments rose marginally.
report, with typical low levels of buyer traffic for the win-
ter months. Inventories remained low, while days on the Non-Financial Services
market were generally unchanged. However, a contact in Most services firms reported that revenue growth re-
Roanoke, Virginia stated that demand for more expen- mained modest since the previous report. However, legal
sive homes improved while noting that smaller down and accounting services providers indicated that reve-
payment requirements contributed to increased sales of nues rose more quickly.
modestly priced homes, particularly for first-time home
buyers. Residential builders reported that home starts Agriculture and Natural Resources
and closings were steady at modest levels, while one Reports on agricultural activity in recent weeks were
contact said that seasoned builders finished another mixed. A South Carolina farmer indicated that improved
good year. However, many sources continued to report a weather conditions after Hurricane Matthew allowed
lack of lots and limited new home inventories. crops to dry out enough to be harvested; yields, howev- er, were down markedly from historical averages. A
On balance, commercial real estate leasing rose moder- Maryland contact said that the fall harvest finished early,
ately in recent weeks. Rental rates rose moderately in which allowed grain farmers to get moderately better
both retail and industrial markets. The retail sector re- prices than growers in the Midwest. Dairy farm consoli-
mained the most active in terms of leasing, with contin- dation continued and milk production was stable due to
ued demand for fast casual restaurants and grocery technology enhancements. Agriculture investments rose
stores. Real estate agents reported strong industrial slightly for light equipment while large equipment sales
leasing, with more e-commerce tenants looking for large remained weak.
facilities. Office leasing was generally unchanged at low
levels, although some contacts reported tightening in the Coal production declined slightly in the southern part of
Class A market. Commercial real estate sales increased West Virginia but rose in the northern part. Natural gas
modestly for retail, industrial, and multifamily properties, extraction rose modestly in recent weeks. ■
with slightly improved sales prices. Commercial con-
struction remained steady at modest levels, except in
Washington, D.C., Charlotte, and Charleston, South
Carolina, where multi-family construction was reported to
be stronger. For more information about District economic conditions visit: www.richmondfed.org/research/regional_economy E-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta The Beige Book ■ January 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Sixth District business contacts indicated that economic activity expanded at a modest pace since the previous report.
The outlook among most contacts for first half of 2017 remains optimistic. Businesses continued to report a tightening
labor market and steady wage growth. Non-labor input costs remained relatively unchanged since the previous report.
District merchants and automobile dealers cited an increase in sales. Tourism reports were mixed. Residential real
estate contacts indicated that December new home sales were flat to slightly up from a year earlier and that existing
home sales were mixed. Home prices increased modestly since the last report. Commercial real estate contacts contin-
ued to indicate improving demand. Manufacturers noted an increase in new orders and production.
Employment and Wages prices due to excess supply. According to the Atlanta
Contacts reported continued tightening in the labor mar- Fed’s Business Inflation Expectations survey, year-over-
ket since the previous report. Firms and staffing agen- year unit costs were up 1.7 percent in December. Survey
cies had difficulty filling positions for certain professional respondents indicated they expect unit costs to rise 2.1
jobs, craft labor jobs, and low-skill jobs. For professional percent over the following twelve months.
positions in particular, employers noted that they were Consumer Spending and Tourism
being more selective than they were prior to the reces- Most District retail contacts reported that sales levels
sion. Manufacturers reported moderate increases in rose modestly since the last report. Early reports from
payroll levels, while retailers encountered the typical merchants for holiday sales indicated that levels ap-
seasonal uptick in payrolls. In order to fill vacancies for peared to have been slightly above expectations. Auto-
low-skill positions, a number of firms and staffing agen- mobile dealers noted that incentives, such as cash bo-
cies reported that they had reduced job qualification nuses and discounts, boosted overall vehicle sales in
requirements. Businesses continued to report investing November.
in technology to automate certain positions as a way to
address the challenges of finding workers. Firms contin- Reports from tourism and hospitality contacts across the
ued to engage in partnerships with community colleges District continued to be mixed. Contacts in Georgia re-
and workforce development organizations to develop ported continued growth in business, leisure, and group
customized training programs, apprenticeship programs, travel; while contacts in Florida reported a slight de-
and internship opportunities. Most contacts reported crease in tourism activity since the last report. The out-
relatively stable wage growth, despite continued upward look among most contacts for the first quarter of the year
pressure for select high-skill or high-demand positions. remains optimistic.
Prices Construction and Real Estate
Contacts reported little change in input costs and prices. Overall, reports from District residential real estate con-
Exceptions were reports from purchasing managers of tacts continued to note slow but steady growth in De-
continued increases in commodity prices, downward cember. The majority of builders noted that construction
pricing pressure in trucking and maritime shipping due to activity was up from the year-ago level. Many builders
excess capacity, and lower refined gasoline and diesel indicated that home sales were flat to slightly up relative F-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
to the year-earlier level, while brokers indicated home Intermodal traffic was also down. Trucking companies
sales were mixed over the same period. Most builders reported a continued slowdown in truckload freight;
and brokers noted that buyer traffic was equal to or however, holiday e-commerce shipment volumes far
higher than the previous year’s level. Brokers reported exceeded expectations, placing constraints on capacity
that inventory levels were mixed relative to the year- and negatively impacting on-time delivery rates. The
earlier level, while most builder reports indicated that majority of transportation contacts forecast higher levels
inventory levels were flat or rising. Builders and brokers of activity over the next year.
continued to note modest gains in home prices in De-
cember. Home sales expectations improved a bit since Banking and Finance
the previous report, with many brokers and builders Credit remained readily available for most qualified bor-
anticipating sales to remain flat or increase slightly over rowers. However, some small businesses continued to
the next three months relative to the year-earlier level. have difficulty obtaining credit.
Most builders anticipate construction activity will hold Energy
steady at the current pace or increase slightly over the Contacts continued to report weak demand and an over-
next three months. supply in the oil and gas sectors. Contacts among a
Most commercial real estate contacts noted improve- growing global liquefied natural gas export market along
ments in demand resulting in rent growth and increased the Gulf Coast noted that they are positioned to meet
absorption, but continued to caution that the rate of im- demand and capacity. Utility industry contacts noted that
provement varied by metropolitan area, submarket, and investment in windfarm projects continued to expand,
property type. The majority of commercial contractors and that changing customer behaviors and energy effi-
indicated that the pace of nonresidential construction ciency improvements in end-use technologies continued
activity had increased from one year ago, with many to challenge growth in electricity demand.
reporting backlogs greater than one year. Reports on the
pace of multifamily construction were mixed, with roughly Agriculture
half indicating that the pace had increased from the year- Agriculture conditions across the District were mixed. By
earlier level and the rest suggesting that the pace had the end of November, much of the District was catego-
leveled off or slowed. Looking forward, most District rized as experiencing severe to exceptional drought
commercial real estate contacts expect the pace of non- conditions. December rains brought some relief, alt-
residential construction activity to increase slightly over hough parts of Alabama and Georgia remained classified
the next quarter while many anticipate the pace of multi- in severe or extreme drought categories and dry condi-
family construction to continue to level off in the coming tions expanded through most of Florida. The USDA
quarters. again designated many counties in the District as natural disaster areas due to damages and losses attributed to
Manufacturing the drought. Florida’s December orange forecast was
Manufacturing contacts reported that overall business unchanged from November, remaining below last sea-
activity increased since the last report. Purchasing man- son’s production. On a year-over-year basis, prices paid
agers indicated that new orders increased and produc- to farmers in November were up for cotton, soybeans,
tion activity continued to rise at a firm pace. Supplier and broilers, but down for corn, rice, beef, and eggs. In
delivery times were reported to be slightly longer, while light of poor pasture conditions caused by the drought,
inventory levels of finished goods rose notably compared livestock producers using corn for feed benefited from
to the previous report. Expectations for future production low corn prices. ■
remained fairly consistent with the previous report, with
almost half of firms anticipating an increase in production
levels over the next six months.
Transportation
District transportation contacts reported mixed levels of
activity. Ports cited substantial growth in containerized
cargo, which was attributed to a strengthening in export
demand and a busy peak season. Year-over-year total
rail traffic fell further since the last report due to signifi-
cant declines in the shipments of petroleum and petrole- For more information about District economic conditions visit:
um products, metallic ores, coal, and farm products. frbatlanta.org/economy-matters/regional-economics F-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago The Beige Book ■ January 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Growth in economic activity in the Seventh District continued at a modest pace in late November and December, though
contacts expected it to move up to a moderate pace over the next six to twelve months. While manufacturing production
grew at a robust rate and business spending grew at a moderate rate, consumer spending increased modestly and
construction and real estate activity edged up. Financial conditions improved some, prices increased modestly, and farm
incomes were little changed.
Employment and Wages Consumer Spending
Employment growth slowed to a modest rate over the Growth in consumer spending picked up to a modest
reporting period, though contacts expected growth to pace over the reporting period, and most contacts ex-
pick up to a moderate rate over the next six to twelve pected that pace to continue in 2017. Contacts reported
months. Contacts continued to indicate that the labor stronger sales in the food and beverage, general mer-
market is tight and that they are experiencing more chandise, hardware, and personal services sectors.
difficulty filling positions at all skill levels. One manufac- Sales of new light vehicles strengthened further, support-
turing contact reported such difficulty finding high-skilled ed in part by even more aggressive incentives. Many
workers that they had traded in expensive, sophisticated dealers reported record sales for the calendar year and
machinery for cheaper, less sophisticated equipment expected similar sales levels in 2017. Used light vehicles
that was easier to operate. A staffing firm reported no sales increased as well, as the high number of new
change in billable hours and ongoing difficulty filling vehicles coming off lease helped push down prices.
orders at the wages employers were willing to pay. That
said, overall, wage growth picked up to a moderate Business Spending
pace. Some contacts reported larger wage increases for Growth in business spending remained at a moderate
high-skilled occupations, while a number of contacts pace overall in late November and December. Retailers
indicated that they raised wages equally for all employ- largely indicated that inventories were at comfortable
ees. Many contacts also reported rising healthcare costs. levels, though many auto dealers reported that invento- ries were uncomfortably high in spite of strong sales.
Prices Manufacturing inventories were generally at desired
Prices again rose modestly in late November and De- levels, though steel service center inventories were
cember. Retail prices increased only slightly. Contacts below historical norms. Current capital expenditures
reported rallies in energy and metals prices and that grew at a moderate pace and contacts expected that
these had led to higher steel prices. Higher transporta- pace to continue over the next six to twelve months.
tion costs continued to weigh on agricultural returns, Outlays were primarily for replacing industrial and IT
particularly for milk producers. equipment. Shipping volumes increased slightly. G-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago
Construction and Real Estate Agriculture
Construction and real estate activity edged up over the Farm incomes were little changed in late November and
reporting period. Residential construction grew slightly December. Corn prices moved higher and sales picked
across home types and locations. Home sales and pric- up some, but inventories remained high following the
es increased slightly overall, though growth varied by record harvest. Soybean sales were up moderately while
price range: demand for homes under $250,000 grew soybean exports remained strong. Contacts reported
strongly, while demand for homes between $250,000 modest declines in input costs, as fertilizer and seed
and $500,000 was flat, and demand for homes over prices fell. Farmland rents were also somewhat lower,
$500,000 was up slightly. Nonresidential construction but had not fallen as much as land values. A rally in
increased modestly on balance. While one contact re- cattle prices, as well as increases in dairy, egg, and hog
ported having the largest backlog of projects in years, prices, provided some relief for stressed livestock opera-
another reported that demand for more space from auto- tions. ■
motive suppliers had eased. Commercial real estate
activity increased slightly in both the for-sale and for-
lease segments. Commercial rents and availability of
sublease space were little changed, and commercial
vacancy rates decreased slightly.
Manufacturing
Growth in manufacturing production picked up to a ro-
bust pace in late November and December. Growth
continued to be strong in autos and aerospace (though it
slowed a bit in autos) and was moderate overall among
other industries. Demand for steel increased some, but
remained modest. Contacts expected production of steel
to pick up in 2017, driven partly by a projected recovery
in oil and gas demand. Heavy machinery manufacturers
reported growth in sales, reflecting both strengthening
end user demand and a smaller-than-expected cutback
in dealers’ inventories. A number of speciality metals
manufacturers indicated that order book growth was
stronger than expected at the end of the year. Manufac-
turers of construction materials again reported slow, but
steady, increases in shipments, in line with the modest
pace of improvement in construction.
Banking and Finance
Financial conditions improved on balance over the re-
porting period. Financial market participants reported
broad-based growth in equity prices and low volatility.
Loan demand from middle-market businesses increased
slightly overall, with improvements spread widely across
sectors. Credit quality and standards were little changed,
though one contact reported that standards were loosen-
ing because of competitive pressure. Consumer loan
demand was little changed. Residential mortgage activity
increased slightly, and with rising rates, there was a shift
in the mix from refinancing to new originations. Contacts
reported a slight decline in auto loan demand and that
auto loan quality was unchanged. For more information about District economic conditions visit: www.chicagofed.org/cfsbc G-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis The Beige Book ■ January 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Information from contacts suggests that economic conditions have continued to expand at a modest pace since our
previous report. Reports of planned activity in the manufacturing and nonfinancial services sectors were generally posi-
tive. Labor market conditions remain tight, with moderate growth in both employment and wages. Reports indicate that
consumer spending growth was generally unchanged, but with expectations of improvement in the first part of this year.
Residential real estate conditions were somewhat mixed, while commercial real estate activity remained robust. District
bankers reported that loan demand remained modest, with growth among most loan types.
Employment and Wages tories and the low price of oil. Another contact in Little
Anecdotal evidence suggests moderate increases in Rock cited concerns that the strengthening of the U.S.
employment and wages since our previous report. Con- dollar is putting downward pressure on grain prices.
tacts described the year-end increases in employment However, since the previous report, cash prices for coal
as in line with growth in previous years. Reports indicat- and feed corn both increased moderately, those for corn
ed that manufacturing employment increased moderately meal, soybeans, and sorghum increased slightly, those
in Missouri and modestly in Arkansas. Contacts in Louis- for rice declined slightly. Across the District, home prices
ville expressed difficulties finding seasonal workers continued to increase moderately. A contact in the Mem-
because of the high demand for seasonal employment phis area also reported higher prices in industrial and
combined with a tight labor market, leading some to retail properties.
increase wages temporarily to attract employees. Con- Consumer Spending
tacts in Little Rock reported that wages for skilled work- Reports from general retailers and auto dealers indicate
ers continue to steadily increase. In addition, the number consumer spending growth in the District was generally
of unemployed workers per advertised vacancy fell unchanged. Contacts described the increase in year-end
modestly throughout the District in December. sales as in line with typical seasonal fluctuations. Arkan-
Prices sas taxable sales picked up in December after a sluggish
Price pressures in the District remained modest. In gen- November. The purchasing sentiment of District house-
eral, business contacts did not report many changes in holds continued to indicate that the next few months
prices charged to customers. Low commodity prices should be a good time to buy major household items.
continue to put pressure on profit margins in sectors Multiple business contacts cited relatively low gas prices
dependent on the agricultural sector. For example, agri- compared with the national average as a source of opti-
cultural equipment dealers outside of Memphis reported mism. Furthermore, nearly half of surveyed auto dealers
they have reduced prices on late-model used trade-ins to expect year-over-year increases in sales in the first
fuel sales. A contact in Arkansas reported there has quarter of 2017, and the majority anticipates increases in
been no shale drilling activity recently due to large inven- inventory over the same period. H-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
Manufacturing Banking and Finance
Manufacturing activity has increased modestly since our Credit market conditions within the District improved at a
previous report. Many companies reported capital ex- moderate pace since the previous reporting period.
penditure and facility expansion plans in the District, According to a survey of 85 small- and mid-sized District
including several manufacturers of food products and banks, overall lending activity experienced moderate
wood products. In contrast, a large manufacturer of growth across all lending categories with some signs of a
transportation equipment announced plans to close a slight tapering. Increases in real estate lending made the
large facility and relocate operations outside of the Dis- largest contributions to aggregate loan growth since the
trict. Manufacturers were generally optimistic and expect previous reporting period. Over the same time frame,
new orders and production to increase over the first loans to individuals expanded at the highest rate for any
quarter. Contacts expressed concern about the strong singular loan category. Bankers reported demand for
dollar, the possibility of trade restrictions, and global commercial real estate loans was generally unchanged
economic weakness. while commercial and industrial loan portfolios grew at a moderate pace. Some banks have reported increases in
Nonfinancial Services non-performing loans in their agricultural loan portfolios,
Reports of plans in the District’s service sectors have which they attribute to low commodity prices throughout
been positive since the previous report. In particular, last year.
several firms that provide healthcare, retail, and utilities
services announced plans to build or expand facilities Agriculture and Natural Resources
and hire new employees. Reports from information ser- As of late November, 95 percent of the District’s planned
vices, leisure and hospitality, and professional and busi- winter wheat had been planted, which is a roughly 1-
ness services were mixed, with some expansion but also percentage-point improvement over last year. Faster
several facility closings and layoffs. Reports from the planting occurred partly because District farmers
transportation sector were positive. A Little Rock contact planned to plant 13 percent fewer acres than they did for
noted that trucking activity has outperformed seasonality the prior crop year. Reports suggest that low snow accu-
in the past 5 or 6 weeks. mulation, which serves as insulation for winter wheat, and periods of extremely cold temperatures may reduce
Real Estate and Construction yields.
Residential real estate activity was mixed across the
District, with little overall change in home sales from the District seasonally adjusted coal production dropped 3
previous reporting period, while inventory remained tight. percent from November to December, while year-to-date
Residential construction activity was also roughly un- production through December was 18 percent below last
changed since the previous report. Seasonally adjusted year’s level. ■
building permits for November were flat, on average,
across District metropolitan areas. Still, permit activity
was higher than a year ago. Some local homebuilders
indicated concerns over rising mortgage rates.
Commercial real estate activity increased at a moderate
pace. Multifamily and industrial demand continued to
strengthen. Commercial construction activity improved
moderately. The amount of new non-residential space
started in November was significantly lower than a year
ago in the largest metro areas in the District. However, a
number of new projects were announced or approved
across the District. St. Louis in particular saw plans
established or greenlighted for a multitude of new multi-
family and office buildings. A local contact also noted
that field work has been steadily increasing despite the
slowdown in construction starts. For more information about District economic conditions visit: www.research.stlouisfed.org/regecon/ H-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis The Beige Book ■ January 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
The Ninth District economy grew modestly overall since the last report. Employment was mixed, with notable hiring and
layoff events, but an optimistic outlook overall among different sources. Wage pressure was moderate, while price pres-
sure was modest overall. The District economy showed growth in manufacturing, real estate, commercial construction,
energy, and tourism. But consumer spending dropped, residential construction slowed, and agriculture remained weak.
Employment and Wages Wage pressure was moderate since the last report. The
Employment was mixed since the last report, but labor survey of manufacturers found that 2016 wages and
markets continued to be tight, and the 2017 hiring benefits rose by an average of 2.5 percent to 3 percent,
outlook was positive. Initial unemployment claims in the with slightly smaller increases expected in the coming
five-week period ending in mid-December were year. A smaller ad hoc survey of professional services
unchanged in Minnesota and Montana relative to a year firms produced roughly similar results, though the
earlier, but were higher in the Dakotas. A retail outlook for 2017 wages was somewhat higher. A
distribution center in Minnesota announced plans to hire Minneapolis-St. Paul staffing contact said wages
1,000 full-time employees in the coming year, and “increased slightly” during the fourth quarter as
energy companies were reportedly hiring again in the oil employers competed for labor, especially in the retail
fields of western North Dakota. Results from the sector. A North Dakota source said that although
Minneapolis Fed’s annual survey of manufacturers, unemployment was still very low, wage pressure
conducted in November and December, showed that “appeared to have leveled off” with slightly slower
hiring activity was flat in 2016, though the outlook was demand there for labor.
positive as one-third of respondents planned to increase
employment in the coming year. A Montana staffing Prices
agency reported solid hiring expectations among clients. Price pressure was modest since the last report. The
“There is a level of optimism I haven’t seen in a long majority of respondents to the Minneapolis Fed’s
time,” said a source there. A survey of employers by a manufacturing survey reported that prices were
multistate staffing firm found a positive, but somewhat unchanged over the past year, but one-third expected to
softer hiring outlook for the first quarter of 2017 in the increase their prices in 2017. One manufacturer noted
District compared with earlier surveys. In Minnesota that steel prices have been flat for two years, but cement
more than a half-dozen layoff events occurred, or were prices have increased around 15 percent. Home heating
announced, involving between 60 and several hundred costs were expected to be as much as 30 percent higher
workers, including a transportation company, health care this winter than last year, due to a combination of colder
provider, boat manufacturer, medical device firm, and weather and higher fuel prices. Most prices received by
private higher education firm. Eight department store farmers decreased in November from a year earlier, with
closures were also announced. the exception of chickens and soybeans. I-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis
Consumer Spending Rapid City and Sioux Falls, S.D. Activity in highway and
Consumer spending across the District was down other heavy construction sectors was slower. A
modestly since the last report. A mall manager in construction supply contact in Minnesota said firms
Minneapolis-St. Paul reported a “very odd” holiday working on infrastructure projects statewide “are feeling
season for consumer spending in recent months; overall the pinch” because of delayed public funding. A Montana
spending was down roughly 2 percent to 3 percent. source said the building sector there “has been fairly
Contributing factors included unfavorable weather, robust,” but the highway sector has slowed significantly
holiday timing that corresponded with a weekend, and because of lower-than-expected state fuel tax
increased online shopping. Weather was warm in collections. This has curtailed maintenance projects and
November, “so there was no Christmas feel in the air” postponed project lettings. Residential construction
and weather in December was “too cold to encourage slowed, as total single-family permits fell in November-
shopping.” Conditions were similar in Fargo, N.D., where December compared with a year earlier in Billings,
consumer spending was down 4 percent to 5 percent, Fargo, Bismarck, N.D., Minneapolis-St. Paul, and
according to a mall manager there. “Cold weather and Rochester. Only Sioux Falls saw a slight uptick over this
storms deterred many shoppers, especially because 40 period.
percent of our mall shoppers live outside of the city Real estate activity was moderate to strong since the last
limits.” Clothing retailers, in particular, have seen a drop report. Sales of office, industrial, and apartment
in sales; one national clothing retailer has closed five properties in Minneapolis-St. Paul were strong, though
stores in the Minneapolis-St. Paul region. Automotive office vacancy rates there have ticked higher as several
sales were modest since the last report. A car dealership major tenants vacated space for new, build-to-suit
in Devils Lake, N.D., reported that new car sales were space. Home sales in November were higher relative to
down slightly, but used-car sales made up for the small a year earlier, including double-digit increases in 18
loss. “We’re all pretty optimistic for 2017; 2016 ended up northern Wisconsin counties, the Flathead Valley region
doing pretty well.” in Montana, and across Minnesota.
Tourism Manufacturing
Tourism conditions were up moderately since the District manufacturing increased modestly since the
previous report. Snowy weather had a positive impact on previous report. An index of manufacturing conditions
winter tourism activity. Ski lodges and restaurants in produced by Creighton University indicated increased
Montana, Minnesota, and Michigan’s Upper Peninsula activity in December in Minnesota and the Dakotas.
reported ideal conditions for winter activity, including low Although respondents to the Minneapolis Fed’s annual
fuel prices for travelers. Since the last report, hotel manufacturing survey indicated that 2016 demand and
occupancy rates have flattened as reported by owners in production was flat to slightly down, respondents
Billings, Mont., and Minneapolis-St. Paul. A tourism expected orders, production, investment, productivity,
official in northern Wisconsin reported that December and profits to increase in the coming year. A supplier of
businesses experienced strong demand. A tourism machinery used in producing heavy equipment for
official in the Upper Peninsula said, “We are having a forestry and other uses indicated recent demand was up
terrific start to the new year; looks like we will have the dramatically.
best winter conditions that we’ve had in five years.” Agriculture, Energy and Natural Resources
Construction and Real Estate District agricultural conditions remained weak, with
Construction activity was mixed since the last report. bountiful harvests offset by low commodity prices. Some
Projects out for bid through mid-December were at District logging operations were reducing production in
similar levels to a year earlier, according to an industry response to low timber prices. Activity in the energy
database. Industrial and retail space currently under sector was up slightly. Regulators approved an
construction in Minneapolis-St. Paul was higher than a environmental permit for a large wind power
year ago, while office space construction was development in South Dakota. District oil and gas drilling
significantly lower. Multifamily permits in November- as of late-December was roughly unchanged from a
December rose considerably over a year earlier in month earlier; however, reports indicated that multiple
Minneapolis-St. Paul and Rochester, Minn., along with firms were hiring oilfield service crews. ■ I-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City The Beige Book ■ January 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Economic activity in the Tenth District increased modestly in late November and December, and most sectors were
optimistic about growth in the next few months. Consumer spending increased with retail, auto and tourism contacts
reporting stronger sales than the previous survey period. Manufacturing activity expanded moderately due to stronger
activity in both the durable and nondurable goods sectors. Contacts in transportation, professional, and high-tech firms
reported increased sales, but firms in the wholesale trade sector noted a continued moderate decline in activity. District
real estate conditions were modestly weaker as residential real estate activity declined and commercial real estate
activity remained flat. Energy activity across the District experienced moderate growth, and expectations remained
positive. District farm income remained subdued as low crop and livestock prices persisted. Employment increased
slightly since the previous survey period, and contacts reported modest wage growth. Input prices were up slightly in
most sectors, and selling prices were mixed.
Employment and Wages increase in the coming months. Respondents in the
Employment and employee hours rose slightly since the transportation sector reported slightly higher input prices,
previous survey period. Contacts in the transportation, but selling prices held steady after contracting during the
professional and high-tech, real estate, education and prior survey period. Prices in the construction sector
manufacturing sectors noted increased employment rose, with additional moderate increases expected in the
levels in late November and December, while employ- coming months. Manufacturers reported a modest rise in
ment declined in the wholesale trade sector. Additionally, finished goods prices after falling in the previous survey,
employment in the retail and auto sectors was below while raw material costs edged up. Manufacturers ex-
year-ago levels, but was flat in the restaurant sector. pected a slight increase in both finished goods and raw
Employment in the energy sector increased, although materials prices over the next few months.
remained below year-ago levels. Contacts across all Consumer Spending
sectors expected stable-to-increasing employment levels Consumer spending increased modestly in late Novem-
over the next six months. Average employee hours ber and December, and was expected to increase mod-
worked increased slightly in the service and manufactur- erately in the next six months. Retail sales rose moder-
ing sectors. Respondents noted a shortage of commer- ately since the previous survey and were considerably
cial drivers, skilled technicians, and service workers. above year-ago levels. Winter and holiday items sold
Contacts in most sectors continued to report modest particularly well, while sales of luxury products were
wage growth, and anticipated moderate wage growth in sluggish. Retailers anticipated sales to rise in the next
the months ahead. few months, and inventory levels were expected to in- crease slightly. Auto sales rebounded modestly over the
Prices survey period, but remained below year-ago levels.
Input prices were up slightly in most sectors compared to However, dealer contacts expected a strong pickup in
the previous survey period, while selling prices were sales during the months ahead. Auto inventories in-
mixed. In the retail sector, input prices edged up, while creased and were expected to rise slightly in the coming
selling prices fell modestly. Both input and selling prices months. Restaurant sales fell modestly and were slightly
declined in the restaurant industry, but were expected to below year-ago levels. Respondents in the restaurant J-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City
sector expected a moderate increase in activity heading Banking
forward. District tourism activity remained above year- Most bankers reported steady overall loan demand in
ago levels, and a strong increase in activity was ex- late November and December including steady demand
pected moving into the winter months. for commercial and industrial, commercial real estate, residential real estate, agricultural and consumer install-
Manufacturing and Other Business Activity ment loans. Loan quality was unchanged compared to a
District manufacturing activity expanded moderately year ago according to most bankers. In addition, a ma-
since the previous survey period, while the pace of other jority of respondents expected loan quality to remain
business activity varied. Manufacturers reported consid- essentially the same over the next six months. Credit
erable improvement in both durable and nondurable standards remained largely unchanged in all major loan
goods production, particularly in metals, machinery, and categories, and a majority of respondents reported sta-
food products. Production, shipments, and new orders ble deposit levels.
grew at their fastest pace in over two years. Manufactur-
ers’ capital spending plans expanded moderately, and Energy
many contacts expressed signs of optimism heading District energy activity increased moderately in late
forward. November and December, and expectations remained
Outside of manufacturing, professional, high-tech, and positive. The number of active oil and gas drilling rigs
transportation firms reported moderate sales increases, continued to pick up modestly across the District. Oil
with strong improvements expected in future months. prices rose moderately to reach eighteen-month highs
Wholesale trade contacts noted a continued moderate after OPEC announced a lower oil production target in
decline in activity but were optimistic about future sales. late November 2016. However, the majority of survey
Professional, high-tech, and wholesale trade firms re- contacts expected actual production to exceed the tar-
ported favorable capital spending plans, while transpor- get. Most firms projected U.S. oil production to be above
tation contacts expected capital spending to continue to previous forecasts due to continued expectations of
fall. higher oil prices. Natural gas prices were slightly higher due to strong seasonal demand. Local firms expected
Real Estate and Construction natural gas prices to be near current levels through
Overall District real estate conditions were modestly 2017, but not high enough to substantially increase
weaker as residential real estate activity declined and drilling activity.
commercial real estate activity remained flat. Residential
sales and inventories were moderately lower than the Agriculture
previous survey period, but contacts expected sales to Farm income expectations weakened slightly as most
increase over the coming months as adverse seasonal agricultural commodity prices remained lower than a
factors abated and buyers sought to purchase homes at year ago. In the livestock sector, cattle prices declined
low interest rates. Home prices remained moderately from the previous year due to growing inventories, and
higher in late November and December and were ex- hog prices also remained lower than year-ago levels. In
pected to rise further. Residential construction activity the crop sector, large corn and wheat inventories kept
declined since the previous survey, with flat housing prices subdued, but strong yields in some areas helped
starts and moderately lower construction supply sales. to offset losses from low prices. However, strong export
Contacts anticipated residential construction activity to demand boosted soybean prices moderately from a year
increase moderately in the months ahead. Contacts in ago. With the exception of soybeans, livestock and crop
the commercial real estate sector reported similar condi- prices remained below the cost of production for some
tions since the previous survey period as absorption and producers. District contacts reported weaker loan repay-
completions increased slightly, but construction under- ment rates than the previous year as farm income and
way, sales, vacancy rates and prices were flat. Commer- cash flow continued to tighten. Weaker farm income and
cial real estate expectations were modestly positive. credit conditions also continued to pressure farmland values downward modestly. ■ For more information about District economic conditions visit: www.KansasCityFed.org/Research/RegionalEconomy J-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas The Beige Book ■ January 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Economic activity in the Eleventh District expanded moderately over the past six weeks. Manufacturing activity in-
creased, and demand for nonfinancial services strengthened. Retail and automobile sales rose, although there were
some reports of weakness. Housing demand grew and commercial leasing activity expanded in most markets. Loan
demand was stable, and the energy sector saw further improvement. Agricultural producers faced mixed conditions, as
record grain yields pressured prices, despite firm demand. Prices, employment and wages increased. Outlooks general-
ly improved.
Employment and Wages Manufacturing
Overall employment rose, although hiring in manufactur- The manufacturing sector expanded during the reporting
ing remained weak and there were reports of layoffs in period. Output rose for durables, although continued
health care. Some energy service firms reported higher weakness was seen in fabricated metals manufacturing.
employment levels and a recruiter for oilfield services Demand for construction materials was stable, and a
firms said they had some orders for hiring and training brick manufacturer said that year-over-year demand was
new employees for 2017. A retailer said they will likely flat in Dallas, but down in Houston and Austin and up in
layoff some employees in 2017 if soft sales persist. San Antonio. Nondurable manufacturing production was
Reports of skilled labor shortages continued, particularly flat to down, but food manufacturers noted increases.
in construction. Upward wage pressures were similar to Outlooks remained positive, although a few contacts
the last reporting period. cited the strong dollar as a headwind for exports.
Prices Gulf Coast refiners noted seasonally strong utilization
Input costs and selling prices rose during the reporting rates, and said that large inventories and modest growth
period. Staffing firms said pricing was flat, although one in demand will likely pressure margins this year. Chemi-
firm said they were renegotiating certain contracts at cal manufacturers noted a positive outlook for 2017, as
lower rates. Air fares edged up, while downward pres- they expect to receive better margins due to the wider
sure on rail shipping rates was noted. Oilfield service spread between oil and natural gas prices—
firms reported an increase in prices, reflecting a pickup domestically, chemicals are produced with natural gas
in demand for their services. Oil and natural gas prices and have a cost advantage over oil-based production in
rose, as did retail gasoline and diesel prices. Cotton and other parts of the world.
grain prices remained depressed. Cattle prices rebound- Retail Sales
ed slightly and dairy prices generally increased but re- Retail demand rose during the reporting period, although
mained below profitable levels for smaller producers. one respondent said that the holiday season was very competitive. Contacts cited sluggish sales in border K-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
cities and energy-related areas. Still, outlooks were mained sluggish in Houston, but office sublease invento-
mostly optimistic. Automobile sales increased modestly ry fell after growing rapidly during the past two years.
on net, although there were reports of softness due to Industrial demand was solid in DFW, but moderated in
energy-related weakness. Houston.
Nonfinancial Services Financial Services
Demand for nonfinancial services generally increased Loan demand was stable over the past six weeks, with
over the past six weeks at a slightly faster pace than in most contacts reporting increases in total loan balances.
the prior period. Most staffing services firms saw a Real estate and auto loan categories continued to per-
pickup in demand. Orders for temporary and contract form well; however, demand for commercial and industri-
workers remained solid, while demand for direct hires al loans was soft. Some contacts cited slight increases in
was mixed. Professional and technical services firms interest rates on loans following the December federal
noted mixed activity, although revenues increased on funds rate hike. Two contacts noted a dip in non-interest
net. Reports from food service firms varied as well, with income, driven in part by the poor performance of oil and
some contacts noting continued growth, while others gas firms and fewer mortgage refinancings because of
cited a decline in activity. Airlines saw an increase in higher rates. Credit quality remained solid and most
passenger demand, which was driven by continued respondents cited an uptick in deposit volumes. Outlooks
strength in domestic travel and a slight uptick in travel to were mostly optimistic, mainly due to elevated hopes for
South America. Cargo volumes were stable to up over regulatory and tax relief following the presidential elec-
the reporting period. Rail cargo increased, led by strong tions.
gains in grain shipments, although petroleum and coal
shipments continued to decline. Seaport cargo volumes Energy
rose in large part due to strength in container traffic, Drilling activity and demand for oilfield services improved
while air shipments dipped to a slower pace than earlier modestly over the reporting period, with the increase largely driven by a pickup in Permian Basin activity.
in the year. Most services firms noted improved outlooks,
although some expressed concern about the uncertainty Outlooks were more optimistic than earlier in the year,
surrounding the incoming administration. although several contacts were skeptical about the im- plementation of the recent OPEC production cuts. Firms
Construction and Real Estate expect oil prices to be higher a year from now, and antic-
Growth in home sales picked up during the reporting ipate steady increases in activity over that period.
period, although respondents noted continued softness
at the higher end. Several contacts attributed the in- Agriculture
crease to a post-election surge and higher mortgage Record grain yields in 2016 have created burdensomely
rates. There were reports of pushback from builders on high stock levels, despite firm demand, keeping prices
lot pricing. Home prices were flat to up slightly, and below the cost of production for most producers. Very strong cotton yields in West Texas led to another upward
some contacts said builders were beginning to focus on
bringing more affordable product to the market. revision of Texas (and U.S.) cotton production, putting further downward pressure on prices which were already
The DFW apartment market continued to lead other near breakeven or sub-profitable levels. Still, cotton
major Texas metros, with nearly full occupancy and prices are relatively better than feed grain or wheat
strong rent gains, despite large deliveries. Demand in prices, and contacts expect an increase in cotton acre-
Houston was better than expected noted one contact, age in 2017. Beef exports have increased, and low feed
although it has been unable to keep up with supply, costs are helping producers’ bottom lines. ■
resulting in further declines in rents and occupancy
rates. Rent growth slowed markedly in Austin and occu-
pancy dipped, while rents and occupancy rose in San
Antonio. Contacts noted that financing for new multifami-
ly properties has become more difficult to obtain.
Office leasing demand remained solid in DFW, particu-
larly for new product or recently built space. Rents ticked For more information about District economic conditions visit:
up, despite elevated construction. Leasing activity re- www.dallasfed.org/research/texas K-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco The Beige Book ■ January 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Economic activity in the Twelfth District continued to expand at a moderate pace during the reporting period of mid-
December through early January. Overall price inflation increased modestly, while upward wage pressures strength-
ened. Sales of retail goods picked up, and growth in the consumer and business services sectors remained strong.
Manufacturing activity changed little on balance, and conditions in the agriculture sector were largely stable. Contacts
reported continued strong activity in residential real estate markets, while conditions in the commercial sector strength-
ened. Lending activity grew at a moderate pace.
Employment and Wages
On balance, wage pressures strengthened. Labor short-
ages in the technology, health-care, and financial indus- sales of beverage products were strong, particularly in
tries boosted wages for skilled workers. Minimum wage the Mountain West, where consumer spending was
legislation increased compensation for unskilled workers boosted by a tight labor market and rising wages. Sales
across the District. One contact in the media and enter- at apparel retailers were on par with the prior year’s
tainment industry reported that some companies were holiday season. Demand for personal computing devices
postponing filling vacant positions in order to offset rising slowed slightly from the same period last year. Strong
costs from minimum wage increases. Wage growth for growth in e-commerce continued to reduce foot traffic at
skilled and unskilled labor in the construction industry traditional brick-and mortar retailers, with one contact
picked up further, and contacts reported substantial labor reporting that an apparel retailer planned to close 15
shortages among contractors in metropolitan areas. percent of their store locations. Activity in the consumer and business services sector
Prices generally grew at a strong pace. Demand for IT business
Overall, price inflation increased modestly over the re- services remained strong, and expectations of future
porting period. Contacts in the hospitality and restaurant increases in the demand for cloud computing services
industries reported increasing the price of goods and boosted infrastructure investment in data centers. Sales
services to offset rising labor costs. Price increases for of gaming products picked up, particularly for games
branded drugs and some generic drugs moderated sold through online channels. Growth in e-commerce
somewhat from a strong pace. In general, prices for sales increased demand for transportation services, with
commodities and agricultural goods increased minimally one contact noting that holiday sales had nearly doubled
and remained relatively low. However, one contact re- volumes from their typical daily level. Contacts in the
ported that steel prices strengthened from a low level tourism industry noted that air travel demand was around
after a modest pick-up in demand. the same level as the previous year’s holiday season.
Retail Trade and Services Hotel bookings grew moderately compared with last
On balance retail sales picked up over the reporting year’s holiday season, and one contact noted that ad-
period, but reports varied somewhat by sector. Holiday vance 2017 holiday bookings have already surpassed L-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco
levels experienced as of this time last year. Contacts Financial Institutions
observed that demand for restaurant and dining services Lending activity grew at a moderate pace over the re-
remained sluggish, in part due to adverse holiday weath- porting period. Loan demand expanded, and competition
er in the Pacific Northwest. Uncertainty surrounding for borrowers remained elevated. On balance, deposits
fiscal policy and the future of the Affordable Care Act grew at a moderate pace, with one contact in the Moun-
reduced providers’ demand for some health-care goods tain West noting that strong economic growth led to a
and services. surge in deposits at banks in the region. Credit quality strengthened, and liquidity remains ample. Contacts
Manufacturing noted that regulatory costs continued to constrain profita-
Manufacturing activity was mixed across sectors but bility at community banks in some regions. ■
largely flat on balance over the reporting period. Produc-
tion of pharmaceuticals continued to grow at a strong
pace, and contacts reported robust merger and acquisi-
tion activity throughout the industry. Demand for energy
generation from manufacturers picked up from a low
level. Deliveries and new orders for commercial aircraft
declined relative to the same period a year earlier. In the
steel manufacturing sector production was suppressed
by increased global supply, dollar appreciation, and
sluggish demand growth from domestic energy produc-
ers.
Agriculture and Resource-Related Industries
Activity in the agriculture sector was mixed over the
reporting period. Demand for timber products remained
strong. Harvests of cherries and apples grew at a moder-
ate pace. Profit margins in the dairy industry improved
somewhat. However, contacts noted that dairy produc-
ers’ investment in equipment was sluggish and focused
on replacing aging machinery. Dollar appreciation
slowed beef exports, and profitability remains a concern
for many producers. Contacts reported that some farm-
ers in California took land out of production due to
drought conditions and labor shortages.
Real Estate and Construction
Real estate market activity continued to grow at a strong
pace. On balance, activity in the housing market re-
mained strong, yet the pace of growth in metropolitan
centers outpaced that in rural areas. Contacts in the
Pacific Northwest and Mountain West reported that,
while housing demand remained high, construction
activity was constrained by shortages in available land,
labor, and materials. Demand for new commercial con-
struction strengthened, and one contact noted that activi-
ty in the Sacramento area remained robust. Overall, the
pace of price increases in the housing market picked up
further, yet a few contacts noted that the pace in their
regions had slowed slightly. Prices for commercial real
estate increased, and vacancy rates remained at histori-
cal low levels. L-2



