National Summary The Beige Book ■ February 2017 Overall Economic Activity Reports from all twelve Federal Reserve Districts indicated that the economy expanded at a modest to moderate pace from early January through mid-February. Consumer spending expanded modestly since the last report. Retail sales increased at a subdued pace across most of the nation, with a number of Districts noting an ongoing shift from in-store to internet purchasing. Auto sales varied widely, but were said to be up in most Districts. Tourism activity was mixed but mostly stronger. Manufacturing activity accelerated somewhat, with most Districts characterizing the pace of growth as moderate. The energy sector showed modest growth in early 2017, and transportation activity was steady to some- what higher across the nation. Home construction and sales continued to expand modestly in most Districts, while residential rental markets were mixed. Home prices were steady to up modestly in most Districts, and a number of Districts noted low inventories of existing homes. Commercial real estate construction grew modestly, and sales and leasing activity grew moderately. Lending activity was steady to somewhat higher. Businesses were generally optimis- tic about the near-term outlook but to a somewhat lesser degree than in the prior report. Employment and Wages Labor markets remained tight in early 2017, with some Districts noting widening labor shortages. Employment grew moderately in most of the nation, though three Districts characterized growth as modest and two reported that it was little changed. A number of Districts noted that staffing firms were seeing brisk business for this time of year, and one noted more conversions from temporary to permanent workers. In general, wages in most Districts rose modestly or moderately, with a few reporting some pickup in the pace of wage growth. A number of Districts noted that shortages of skilled workers—particularly engineers and IT workers—were driving up their wages, and there were also some reports of labor shortages in the leisure and hospitality, construction and manufacturing industries. Prices Pricing pressures were little changed from the prior report. Most Districts reported that selling prices were up modestly or moderately, though four indicated that prices had largely leveled off. Input prices were up modestly, on balance. Energy prices and farm prices were mixed but mostly steady, on balance, while prices for construction materials climbed in a number of Districts. Overall, businesses said they expected both input prices and selling prices to increase modestly in the months ahead.
Highlights by Federal Reserve District
Boston New York
Business contacts in most sectors reported modest to Economic activity has accelerated to a modest pace.
moderate year-over-year increases in activity in recent Labor markets have strengthened, hiring has picked up,
weeks. Staffing firms, by contrast, cited modest declines and wages continued to rise modestly. Input cost in-
in revenues. Some respondents expressed concern creases have become more widespread, and selling
about policy changes in the new administration and prices have accelerated somewhat. Housing markets
associated uncertainty. Most contacts nevertheless cited have continued to weaken at the high end, while com-
a positive outlook. mercial real estate markets have picked up. 1

 National Summary
Philadelphia St. Louis
Overall, economic activity continued to rise modestly Economic conditions have continued to expand at a
with pickups to growth emerging from manufacturers and modest pace. Manufacturing contacts reported an uptick
homebuilders. However, activity was essentially flat in in activity in the first quarter, while auto dealers reported
several other sectors. Many contacts remained cautious- a slight decline in sales. The general outlook for 2017
ly optimistic even as their uncertainty increased. In gen- among business contacts remained optimistic, even
eral, employment, wages, and prices continued to rise at improving slightly since mid-November.
a modest pace. Minneapolis
Cleveland Economic activity grew modestly. Employment rose, but
Economic activity, which had picked up some after the certain retail sectors saw significant closures and layoffs.
election, continued to rise at steady pace into February. Activity in North Dakota slowed, though activity in the
The expansion was attributed to rising consumer and Bakken was improving. Winter tourism conditions were
business confidence, although this confidence is only spotty. Manufacturing activity and outlook improved.
reflected in a limited increase in business spending. Commercial construction slowed, but residential con-
Retaining high-skilled workers is increasingly difficult. struction had a strong January. Home sales were mixed
Product pricing pressures diminished slightly. across metro regions.
Richmond Kansas City
Economic activity grew moderately since the previous Economic activity continued to expand modestly, and
Beige Book. Manufacturers reported increased ship- contacts in most sectors expected additional gains in the
ments, along with stronger growth in new orders and months ahead. Retailers and auto dealers anticipated a
greater capacity utilization. Additionally, record volumes pickup in sales in the next few months, and manufactur-
of container traffic passed through the ports in recent ers’ expectations for future activity were at their highest
weeks. Commercial leasing increased, particularly for levels in over twelve years. The energy sector continued
industrial and retail space. In commercial construction, to expand, but the agriculture sector remained weak.
multi-family and mixed use development dominated. Dallas
Atlanta Economic activity grew moderately, and outlooks re-
Economic activity expanded modestly. The labor market mained optimistic. The energy sector noted improved
remained tight. Overall, wages and non-labor cost pres- demand and signs of a pickup in hiring. Manufacturing
sures were subdued. Retailers cited flat sales, while auto and service-sector activity continued to expand, although
sales increased. Home prices increased modestly. De- there was increased uncertainty surrounding the new
mand for commercial real estate continued to improve. administration’s policy changes. Loan activity increased
Manufacturers noted an increase in new orders and and housing demand remained solid.
production. San Francisco
Chicago Economic activity continued to expand at a moderate
Growth picked up to a moderate pace. Employment, pace. Sales of retail goods picked up, and activity in the
wages, business spending, and manufacturing produc- consumer and business services sector slowed slightly
tion all grew at moderate rates, consumer spending to a moderate pace. Manufacturing conditions remained
increased modestly, and construction and real estate mixed, and activity in the agriculture sector was largely
activity rose slightly. Financial conditions were little unchanged. Activity in the housing market was un-
changed, prices increased modestly, and farm incomes changed from the prior period, but remained strong.
improved slightly. 2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Boston The Beige Book ■ February 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
First District businesses contacted in early February reported modest to moderate increases in activity from a year
earlier. Retailers cited flat or single-digit increases in sales, while two-thirds of responding manufacturers saw revenue
gains. Staffing firms mostly saw slight year-over-year declines in revenues, attributable in part to tight labor supply.
Commercial real estate markets in the region were steady, with “good but not great” office leasing activity in Boston,
Portland, and Providence. Residential real estate markets across the region saw increased median sales prices and
mixed sales results, partially attributable to ongoing inventory shortages. Across most sectors, input and selling prices
were stable, although staffing firms have raised bill and pay rates. While some responding firms expressed concern
about increased uncertainty, most continued to say they were upbeat about 2017.
Employment and Wages Retail and Tourism
Retail firms cited a continuing tight labor market for Retail contacts consulted for this round reported that
positions involving information technology. Retailers year-over-year sales growth in January to mid-February
planning to open new stores expect to hire sales associ- ranged from flat to low single-digit increases. One furni-
ates and front-office personnel in line with that growth. ture retailer reported that its January sales were up 4
Manufacturing respondents reported that employment percent year-over-year, but severe winter weather in the
was up, although for most it was a very minor change. Northeast during the first two weeks of February de-
Manufacturers continued to say they had difficulty finding terred shoppers. Demand for footwear, outerwear, wom-
skilled engineers and one added that the shortage of en’s apparel, and outdoor goods was reportedly strong,
engineers was a problem overseas as well. No manufac- but there was some softness in sales of men’s and chil-
turers reported any significant wage pressure. Among dren’s apparel. Contacts expect to see modest growth
responding staffing firms, all observed strong overall (in the low single digits) in 2017.
labor demand and tight labor supply. Two firms men- Boston area hotels posted an 81.1 percent occupancy
tioned lower demand from the manufacturing sector; rate and another consecutive record high daily average
sectors with particularly low labor supply were IT, ac- room rate for 2016. Based on advance hotel bookings,
counting, and healthcare. Staffing firms indicated that bill projections for 2017 were similarly upbeat. However,
and pay rates had increased since the previous quarter; some hotel and restaurant groups feel that the executive
most reported little pushback to increasing bill rates. order limiting travel from certain countries may have
Prices adverse business effects as the United States may not
Retailers indicated that selling prices and vendor prices be perceived as a welcoming country. Adding this worry
were level or up 1 percent to 2 percent. Manufacturers to other concerns raised by a strong U.S. dollar, the
reported no exceptional pricing pressure from either possible effect of Brexit on the British exchange rate,
customers or suppliers. A manufacturer of milk products and the outcomes of upcoming elections in key Europe-
said that it was the most stable pricing environment in an countries creates some significant uncertainty about
the industry in 10 years. A chemical manufacturer noted how the tourism sector will fare in 2017.
that increased global production of olefins had driven Manufacturing and Related Services
down the price. Of nine manufacturing contacts, six reported sales gains versus the same period a year earlier, two noted little A-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Boston
change and one reported lower sales. For those report- ed partly to a longer-term trend among employers of
ing growth, it was generally stable. One of the firms reducing the space allotted per worker. Office construc-
reporting no growth said it reflected an exceptionally tion remains limited across the First District, and contacts
strong start to 2016. cite high building costs and a modest demand outlook as restraining factors. Boston’s investment sales market
Although contacts were generally positive about the near saw steady demand and prices remained high by histori-
-term outlook, many expressed concerns about policy cal standards, but investors continued to express caution
changes from the new administration. Three mentioned over the future direction of prices, especially in light of
that the border adjustment tax would present a problem rising interest rates. Construction activity continued to
for them. A manufacturer of semiconductor equipment increase in Rhode Island but was concentrated in multi-
said that restrictions on the H1B visa program would family, hospitality, and infrastructure projects. Investment
affect its ability to staff positions. Another said that un- sales remained strong in Portland but continued to cool
certainty about policy was the problem; for example, a in Connecticut. Contacts offered mixed reports on the
border adjustment tax would have a big effect on where retail leasing environment: the region’s mid-market malls
they located future production facilities and they would saw increased store closings while demand for core
be reluctant to commit to new investment without some urban retail and high-end mall space remained strong.
resolution of the issue. One contact noted that a risk in Contacts are cautiously optimistic that fundamentals will
the coming year was that a plateauing of sales in the hold steady or improve in 2017.
auto industry would lead to discounting of new cars and
resulting pricing pressure on suppliers. Residential Real Estate
Staffing Services The end of 2016 continued recent trends for residential
New England staffing services contacts reported mixed real estate markets in the First District. Closed sales for
changes in year-over-year revenue. Unlike recent re- single-family homes increased in three of the six First
ports, most firms saw declining year-over-year revenue; District states and decreased, though only moderately, in
nonetheless they said that the economy remained strong the other three and in the Boston metro area. (Five of the
and they were optimistic about the future of their firms. six First District states and Boston reported changes
Facing supply shortfalls, most contacts were trying out from December 2015 to December 2016, while Maine
new ways to fill their open positions, including partnering reported year-over-year changes to January 2017). For
with local non-profits, offering sign-on bonuses, and condos, closed sales increased in four states and de-
increasing their social media presence. While all firms creased modestly in Massachusetts, New Hampshire
expressed optimism about the next few months, several and the Boston metro area. Despite sales being down
were concerned about policy uncertainty with the new year-over-year, a Boston contact reported that the opti-
administration. One healthcare staffing firm, for example, mism going into 2017 is “overwhelming.” Record num-
lost a substantial number of listings a few weeks ago bers of homes were sold in December in Rhode Island
when one of its clients issued a hiring freeze in Boston, and in 2016 as a whole in Maine. Pending sales were
waiting to see what happens with Obamacare. also generally up, which indicated a good outlook going into 2017. Many contacts again cited low inventory as a
Commercial Real Estate strain on the market. Inventory decreased for single-
Commercial real estate activity was mostly unchanged in family homes and condos in every reporting region.
the First District. In Connecticut, office leasing activity Median sales prices rose year-over-year for single-family
was limited while industrial leasing was steady if not homes and condos in every reporting state and the
robust, and one contact expects further development of Boston metro area. A Rhode Island contact commented
large retail fulfillment centers in the state in 2017. De- that “as prices rise, more people will see gains in home
mand for industrial property appeared to increase more equity which will give them more freedom to move. That
broadly across the District, driving new build-to-suit should provide some relief to our supply shortage.” Over-
construction in numerous locations. In Boston, Portland, all, contacts were optimistic about housing markets
and Providence, office leasing activity was described as going into 2017. ■
good but not great, and vacancy rates remained low to
very low. A Boston contact says that the city’s office For more information about District economic conditions visit:
absorption pace slowed in recent months, a fact attribut- www.bostonfed.org/regional-economy A-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of New York The Beige Book ■ February 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Economic activity in the Second District has picked up since the last report, expanding at a modest pace, and labor
markets have strengthened. Increases in both input costs and selling prices have become more widespread. Manufac-
turers noted a brisk pickup in business activity in early 2017, while service-sector contacts have continued to report
steady to moderately expanding activity. Consumer spending has been subdued in recent weeks, despite a surge in
consumer confidence. Housing markets have been mixed, with weakness continuing at the high end, while commercial
real estate markets were steady to stronger. Residential construction has remained sluggish, though office construction
has picked up slightly and industrial construction remains fairly robust. Banks reported that loan demand retreated and
that delinquency rates rose modestly.
Employment and Wages increase in New York State’s minimum wage schedules,
The labor market has strengthened in early 2017. Hiring a couple of contacts in the leisure and hospitality indus-
activity has picked up—especially among service firms. try indicated that they have faced some challenges.
In particular, businesses engaged in education and Prices
health, information, professional and business services, Business contacts in all major industry sectors reported
and wholesale trade reported that they have increased widespread increases in input prices—generally more so
staffing levels. On the other hand, manufacturers report than in the last report. Contacts in most industries antici-
steady employment, and leisure and hospitality firms pate further increases in the months ahead, except in the
mostly indicated steady or declining employment. Busi- transportation sector, where input costs are expected to
nesses in almost every industry sector plan to add staff remain steady. Selling prices are reported to be rising in
in the months ahead, on net. the wholesale trade and leisure and hospitality industries
Contacts at employment agencies reported that the labor but generally stable in other sectors, notably retail trade.
market has remained tight and that hiring activity has
been fairly brisk for this time of year. One contact in Consumer Spending
upstate New York noted a recent pickup in hiring at Retail merchandise sales were generally characterized
manufacturing and tech firms, while an agency in New as sluggish in January and early February. However, on-
York City reported brisk hiring from small to medium line sales have reportedly been robust, with one major
sized financial firms. chain noting double-digit percentage growth over the past year. Two contacts attribute some of the recent
Contacts in most industries reported continued modest weakness in seasonal merchandise to unseasonably
wage growth, though contacts in the leisure and hospital- mild weather. Despite the disappointing sales perfor-
ity sector noted a more significant pickup. Contacts at mance, inventories were said to be at satisfactory levels.
major employment agencies across the District report Retail contacts continued to express concern about the
that starting salary offers have generally been steady to near term sales outlook, with one noting that a number of
rising modestly, though they have risen more noticeably store closings are in the works across the District.
for some high-skill workers that are in short supply.
While it is too early to assess any overall effects on Auto dealers in upstate New York reported that sales of
wages and employment resulting from the January 1 new vehicles were steady at a strong level in early 2017, B-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of New York
while sales of used vehicles picked up further. Invento- inventory of resale units has risen but remains excep-
ries of new vehicles have come down but remain some- tionally low. Bidding wars have largely subsided.
what elevated. Retail and wholesale credit conditions Elsewhere across the District, market conditions have
were reported to be in good shape. been more favorable. Home sales in the suburbs around
Consumer confidence in the Middle Atlantic states (NY, New York City have been quite robust; prices have re-
NJ, PA) continued to climb in January, reaching its high- mained flat in northern New Jersey and Westchester but
est level in more than a decade. have begun to pick up on Long Island. In upstate New York, the market has continued to strengthen, with brisk
Manufacturing and Distribution sales activity, rising prices, and extremely tight inventory.
Manufacturers reported that business activity has picked
up sharply in early 2017, with new orders, unfilled or- Commercial real estate markets have been steady to
ders, and shipments rising noticeably. Manufacturing somewhat stronger in the first few weeks of 2017. Office
contacts also continued to express widespread optimism markets were little changed—both in and around New
about the near-term outlook. Businesses in the whole- York City, as well as in upstate New York—and asking
sale trade and transportation industries reported more rents have mostly been stable. However, the market for
modest improvement but remain widely optimistic about industrial space has continued to strengthen. Across the
future business conditions. New York City metro area, industrial vacancy rates have declined further and rents have continued to rise. In
Services upstate New York, vacancy rates have been steady,
Service-sector businesses continued to report mixed but, while rents have moved up noticeably.
on balance, steady business conditions in early 2017.
Contacts in both the finance and health & education New home construction—both single-family and multi-
sectors noted a pickup in activity, while those in leisure family—has been sluggish across most of the District.
and hospitality and information sectors reported some New office construction has picked up somewhat but
softening. Looking ahead, service-sector businesses remains fairly subdued. However, there continues to be
remained generally optimistic about the outlook— a good deal of office construction in progress in New
particularly those in the professional & business services York City. Industrial construction has been fairly strong.
industry. Tourism activity has shown signs of continued Banking and Finance
softening, with Broadway theaters reporting sharp de- Small to medium sized banks in the District reported
clines in attendance in January and especially February, weaker demand for consumer loans and residential
and hotels generally reporting lower occupancy rates. mortgages, but no change in demand for commercial
Real Estate and Construction mortgages or C&I loans. Bankers reported that credit
Housing markets have been mixed across the District standards were unchanged across all loan categories.
since the last report, with the high end of the market Spreads of loan rates over cost of funds were un-
continuing to lag. New York City’s rental market has changed across all loan categories except residential
weakened further. Rents on larger apartments have mortgages, for which bankers reported widening
continued to decline, while rents on smaller units have spreads. Respondents also reported an increase in the
been flat; moreover, landlords have been offering more average deposit rate. Finally, bankers reported higher
generous concessions in early 2017. Apartment rents delinquency rates across all loan categories except
have been flat in the areas around New York City but commercial mortgages, for which bankers reported no
have continued to edge up across upstate New York. change in delinquency rates. ■
Rental vacancy rates have edged down in New York
City, reportedly due, in part, to the increased conces-
sions. Across the District overall, vacancy rates have
been mostly steady.
New York City’s co-op and condo resale market has
been flat in early 2017. There was a pickup in activity in
January, but that has subsided in the first half of Febru-
ary. Prices on larger units—especially new develop-
ment—have continued to slip, while prices on smaller For more information about District economic conditions visit:
apartments have been steady to up slightly. The invento- www.newyorkfed.org/data-and-statistics/regional-data-
ry of newly developed units has continued to rise; the center/index.html B-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia The Beige Book ■ February 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Aggregate business activity in the Third District continued at a modest pace during the current Beige Book reporting
period. Notable shifts in activity included manufacturing and homebuilding, which improved to a moderate pace of
growth. Four sectors — nonauto consumer spending, lending, and nonresidential construction and leasing — were
essentially unchanged, after growing at a modest pace in the prior period. Existing home sales appeared to have de-
clined. According to most contacts, employment, wages, and prices continued to grow at a modest pace. Expectations
for firm growth have risen recently; however, the anticipated pace of growth over the next six months remains moderate
on average.
Employment and Wages and other large service-sector firms noted no signs, nor
Employment has continued at a modest pace of growth fear of inflation. Homebuilders continued to note the
since the prior report. Manufacturing firms continued to greatest price pressures for their inputs, especially for
note increases in employment and in the length of aver- subcontracted labor. Overall, the sales prices of existing
age hours worked. Employment indicators from nonman- homes decreased slightly, if at all, although this varies
ufacturing firms remained positive overall, but with small- across markets and price categories.
er net increases as a growing percentage of firms report- Looking ahead one year, manufacturers anticipate a 2.0
ed a decrease in full-time and part-time workers. percent increase in prices received for their own goods
Staffing firms described themselves as busy. In some and services, and nonmanufacturers expect a 2.5 per-
cases, activity picked up immediately following the holi- cent increase. Manufacturers also reported expectations
day lull and continued at a steady pace. of 2.2 percent annual inflation for consumers — slightly higher than last fall, while nonmanufacturers continue to
Wage pressures continued to be modest with little shift in expect 2.0 percent inflation.
reporting on wage levels or labor market tightness. Staff-
ing contacts noted little change in overall wage pres- Manufacturing
sures. A somewhat lower percentage of nonmanufactur- A greater percentage of firm contacts in a broader range
ing contacts reported wage increases than during the of sectors reported increased manufacturing activity than
prior period. in the previous period, suggesting moderate growth overall. Contacts reported that new orders picked up to a
Prices moderate pace of growth, while shipments continued at
On balance, price levels continued to rise modestly. a modest pace.
About two-thirds of firm contacts reported no change at
all in prices paid and prices received. Of the remaining Overall, gains in activity were indicated by most major
firms, more reported increases than decreases with the sectors, including the makers of lumber products, paper
exception of prices received by nonmanufacturing firms, products, chemicals, primary and fabricated metal prod-
which were almost evenly balanced. Contacts in banking ucts, industrial machinery, and electronic products. C-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia
More than half of the manufacturing contacts were opti- Financial Services
mistic that orders, shipments, and general activity would Third District financial firms reported little or no change in
grow over the next six months, similar to the prior Beige overall loan volumes, after posting modest increases
Book period. About one-third of the contacts expressed during the prior Beige Book period. This excludes the
expectations for increased capital expenditures, although typically large seasonal decrease observed in credit card
this was a bit lower than the prior period. volumes, which follows the annual holiday season.
Consumer Spending Consumer lending (other than for credit cards and autos)
Nonauto retail sales grew slightly at best during the was the only loan category to grow significantly during
period, according to several analysts. One area chain the period. Commercial real estate loan volume grew a
reported that sales were a little lower than the prior two bit, but less so than the same period last year. Home
months, and a bit below expectations but the contact equity loans and auto loans decreased slightly, while
was not yet worried about a changing trend. volumes of home mortgages and of commercial and industrial loans were mostly unchanged.
Auto dealers noted concern this period, as sales only
slightly increased over last year after adjusting for much Most contacts continued to note the increased optimism
milder weather (sales were hurt last year by a significant of Wall Street investors and larger Main Street business-
January 2016 snowstorm). Dealers worry about too es but also noted increased uncertainty, especially for
much inventory and getting squeezed between manufac- consumers and small businesses. In general, banking
turers’ ongoing supply and slightly slumping demand. contacts continued to express cautious optimism for slow, steady growth.
Tourism contacts generally indicated a continuation of
modest growth and positive prospects for the year Real Estate and Construction
ahead. A Poconos contact indicated that the snow sea- On balance, homebuilders were pleased to report that
son had opened early and that there was a good base of the new year began with moderate increases in traffic,
snow for Presidents’ Day, which coincides with the ar- contract signings, and construction backlogs. Mild winter
ea’s biggest winter week because so many schools have weather helped year-over-year comparisons, but activity
vacations. Meanwhile, area water parks continue to has also outperformed firms’ expectations.
attract an increasing number of visitors year-round.
Contacts at the Jersey Shore indicated that peak sum- Brokers in most major Third District housing markets
mer bookings are filling up earlier each year. Even casi- reported a modest decline in existing home sales follow- ing moderate growth last period. They report no signs
no revenues in Atlantic City have finally begun to register
some year-over-year gains on a more consistent basis. yet that the very low inventory levels will be replenished in time to boost sales this spring.
Nonfinancial Services Nonresidential real estate contacts covering much of the
Overall, Third District service-sector firms continued to Third District reported little change overall to the relative-
report moderate growth in general activity; moreover, the ly high levels of construction and leasing activity. Con-
pace was somewhat faster than the prior period. Specifi- tacts reported strong growth for projects associated with
cally, contacts noted a pickup in the moderate pace of energy and pipelines and some ongoing growth for the
sales and new orders. A transportation analyst reported office market in and around Philadelphia. However,
that truck freight was growing a bit better than the prior contacts have begun to voice concerns as to whether the
period, as its market tightened at year-end. Spot rates industrial/warehouse market might be near a peak, as
for hiring trucks had increased, so contract rates will they have previously said for multifamily construction. ■
likely follow, according to the analyst. Along with steady
growth, one contact noted that the incidence of consum-
ers not paying their monthly bills continues to fall. Gener-
ally, the high expectations of future growth reported in
the prior period were tempered this period — retreating
to more average levels. For more information about District economic conditions visit: www.philadelphiafed.org/research-and-data/regional- economy C-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland The Beige Book ■ February 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Economic activity grew moderately on balance across the Fourth District during the current reporting period. Labor
markets continued to show signs of tightening, with moderate wage gains. Upward pressure on prices paid and prices
received dampened slightly. Consumers continued to favor Internet and mobile shopping over brick and mortar. Motor
vehicle sales spiked higher in January. Production picked up at manufacturing plants. Nonfinancial services firms expe-
rienced slight revenue growth overall, but demand was strong for IT and data analytics services. The housing market
improved, with higher unit sales and higher prices. Commercial builders believe 2017 will be a solid year for their indus-
try, though some expect that 2017 will also be the peak of the current construction cycle. Lending pipelines remain
relatively strong.
Employment and Wages are clearer. A data analytics firm reported that brick-and-
Reports indicated continued tightening in labor markets. mortar retailers generally are experiencing 1.5 percent to
Staffing increases were prevalent in the nonfinancial 3 percent price declines. One factor driving the declines
services and the real estate and construction industries. is competition from their Internet counterparts. An auto
Manufacturing saw a pickup in hiring after reporting flat dealer noted that the average transaction price is ap-
or lower payrolls since late last summer. Attracting and proaching a historic high mainly because of the populari-
retaining qualified employees in the skilled trades and ty of light trucks, which have higher sticker prices than
technical positions such as engineering and data analyt- cars. He believes that rising interest rates will help tem-
ics remain challenging and are fueling wage and benefit per further sticker price increases. Manufacturers are
increases across industry sectors. One large manufac- seeing modest increases in raw material prices, which
turer noted that the average time required to fill skilled they attributed to the rising cost of steel products and
production or professional job openings has risen from suppliers finally raising prices after having delayed such
two months to six months. Reports of average wage increases during the past few years. Wellhead prices for
increases during 2017 are generally expected to fall natural gas continue to trend slowly higher, but they
within the 2 percent to 3 percent range, but there were a remain below the threshold that would significantly boost
few reports of 3 percent to 5 percent increases. upstream activity.
Prices Consumer Spending
Upward pressure on prices paid and prices received has Reports indicated that Internet retailers are experiencing
dampened over the period. Several nonfinancial services strong revenue growth, while same-store sales were flat.
providers reported that they are holding their billing rates Although traditional brick-and-mortar retailers are invest-
in check, excluding inflation adjustments, because of ing in ecommerce, their combined sales have increased
pushback from clients when they attempted to raise at a slower pace than the sales of Internet specialists.
rates. Similarly, suppliers of healthcare products sold to That said, a furniture chain reported a significant boost in
hospitals indicated that they are holding their prices in post-election consumer confidence, which when com-
check until potential changes in the Affordable Care Act D-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland
bined with low interest rates contributed to fourth quarter and the likelihood of higher interest rates are factors
revenues at a historic high. Strong sales continued into motivating buying decisions. Low inventory of existing
January. Similarly, car dealers reported a spike in unit homes for sale is helping boost prices. Estimates of
sales of new and used vehicles during January when single-family construction starts for 2016 were higher in
compared to those of the same time period a year earlier Ohio and eastern Kentucky, compared to those of a year
and when compared to December’s transactions. One earlier.
dealer attributed the increase in sales to an ongoing post Overall activity in the commercial construction market
election boost in consumer confidence and to rising remains elevated. Contacts expect that 2017 will be a
OEM incentives. Unit sales increases are reportedly solid year for their industry, though some noted that 2017
around 12 percent, with light trucks dominating sales. may be the peak of the current construction cycle and
Manufacturing that they anticipate uncertainty surrounding business
Factory output picked up slightly since our last report. activity in 2018. General contractors are seeing strong
Activity for suppliers to the aerospace, construction, and demand from healthcare and industrial customers. The
motor vehicle industries remains elevated. Manufactur- latter group’s demand is especially pronounced for ware-
ers of food service and warehouse automation equip- housing and distribution facilities. An Internet retailer
ment cited strong growth during 2016. Factors tempering announced plans to construct a major hub in the District.
output growth for other manufacturing industries include A commercial real estate services contact noted a large
ongoing weakness in the oil and gas industry and the post election spike in commercial property transaction
strong dollar. The auto industry is concerned about the fees after business had been flat for most of 2016. Gen-
possible impacts of a border-adjustment tax. Auto parts eral contractors cited two issues that may be dampening
cross borders multiple times prior to final assembly. A multifamily construction: First, uncertainty about the
border tax policy would likely result in higher sticker administration’s tax policies is causing worry among
prices and an increase in OEM incentives. sellers of affordable housing tax credits. Even though no new tax policies are in place, firms are holding off on
Nonfinancial Services purchasing tax credits because of speculation that they
Activity in the nonfinancial services sector grew slightly won’t need to offset their taxes as much as in the past.
over the period. Strongest demand was seen in the IT Second, banks are moving more cautiously when con-
and data analytics, commercial real estate services, and sidering financing multifamily developments out of con-
management consulting segments. Several contacts cern that some hotter markets may be overbuilt. As a
observed that clients were in a wait-and-see mode prior result, developers are being required to hold equity
to the presidential election and that demand for services positions that are about 10 percentage points higher
picked up post election. An engineering design firm compared to requirements of a couple of years ago.
reported that through much of 2016, clients had been
hesitant to move forward with projects, especially large Financial Services
projects. That said, there was a noticeable pickup in Bankers reported that lending pipelines remain relatively
project feasibility studies since the presidential election. strong. The outlook is more positive since the presiden-
Similarly, a law partner noted that demand for legal tial election because of an increase in consumer and
services was stable through most of 2016. However, in business confidence that bankers believe will fuel in-
the fourth quarter, his firm saw a broad-based uptick in creased demand for their products and services. Howev-
demand. A landscape architecture firm reported a large er, the boost in demand may not occur until after mid-
spike in RFPs during December, especially for nontradi- year 2017. In contrast, potential changes in US trade
tional services. The firm indicated that many of these policies could restrain the business activities of corporate
projects had been postponed for years and that property clients with large global business models. Another re-
owners are now feeling confident about the economy. ported concern is that non amortizing loans issued to commercial developers prior to the financial crisis are
Real Estate and Construction coming due. Already there are some developers turning
Unit sales of new and existing single-family homes for all over collateral rather than repaying loans because many
of 2016 increased almost 7 percent compared to those retail properties are worth less than the loan value. ■
of a year earlier. The average sales price rose 4.5 per-
cent. Realtors reported that rising consumer confidence D-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond The Beige Book ■ February 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Economic activity in the Fifth District grew moderately since the previous Beige Book report. Labor demand continued to
increase and there were more reports of employees being converted from temporary to permanent workers. Prices rose
somewhat more rapidly at services firms, while increases in manufacturing prices received were modest. Manufacturing
input price growth moderated slightly. Manufacturing strengthened, and producers anticipated continued improvement
during 2017. Retail sales rose on balance. Tourism grew at a normal seasonal pace. Residential real estate activity
increased slightly, while commercial leasing rose moderately. In banking and finance, commercial loan demand rose
and residential mortgage demand softened to typical seasonal levels. At non-financial services firms, revenues contin-
ued to rise at a modest pace. Energy markets strengthened modestly and agricultural conditions were largely un-
changed at seasonal levels. slightly elevated levels previously reported, while natural
Employment and Wages gas prices edged lower in recent weeks.
Labor demand remained moderate, although hiring
increased at a slightly slower pace since the previous Manufacturing
Beige Book because of usual seasonal slowing at the Manufacturers reported increased shipments, along with
beginning of the year. District contacts reported modest stronger growth in new orders and greater capacity
increases in wages in recent weeks. Recruiters contin- utilization since the prior Beige Book. Food producers
ued to report tight labor markets, with strong demand, and metals fabricators were among those indicating
particularly for higher-level skilled workers. Staffing firms greater strength. A steel producer reported double-digit
reported that the volume of worker conversion from growth in quotes. Additionally, an executive from a paper
temporary to permanent increased modestly. Tourism products company said demand had increased for pulp
and hotel contacts were planning typical levels of sea- and specialty products. A producer of aerospace prod-
sonal hiring but were experiencing shortages of appli- ucts expected his output to double in 2017. Surveyed
cants; some businesses were offering higher wages or manufacturers anticipated stronger business conditions
incentives to fill those positions. during the next six months.
Prices Ports and Transportation
Services firms’ prices rose at a moderately faster pace in Port officials reported record strength in container vol-
recent weeks while retail prices grew more robustly, ume since the previous Beige Book. At one port, volume
according to our most recent surveys. Manufacturers was described as “off the charts,” and another had its
reported modest growth in prices received and a slight best month ever for loaded containers. Imports of furni-
slowdown in average input price growth. Home prices ture, building supplies, and auto parts were strong. Auto
inched up, on balance. Residential home builders report- imports remained at high levels, but exports of used cars
ed a modest increase in lot prices in some areas. Grain, to oil producing regions softened, which was attributed to
livestock, and poultry prices rose marginally but re- falling oil prices in those destinations. Exports of con-
mained below historical averages. Beef prices, however, struction and agricultural equipment remained weak.
continued to decline slightly. Coal prices remained at the E-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
Executives at trucking firms in the District said that de- Banking and Finance
mand for freight hauling services was somewhat softer in Since our previous beige book, loan demand grew mod-
recent weeks, but one contact noted that expectations erately. Overall, bankers said that consumer and com-
were for an improvement in the second half of the year. mercial demand was increasing at a healthy rate with the
A railroad industry source commented that capacity had exception of some small rural areas throughout the
begun to tighten in freight transportation. District and in coal regions of West Virginia. In the Dis- trict on the whole, residential mortgage demand softened
Retail, Travel, and Tourism slightly to a typical seasonal level. Commercial loan
Retail sales rose on balance, particularly for building demand grew at a moderately faster pace. Demand for
supply and home and garden establishments, as well as small business loans and lines of credit continued to rise
hardware stores. In contrast, sales at convenience and at a modest pace. Credit quality was unchanged on
grocery stores were lower. Auto sales remained strong. balance but varied by region; a West Virginia banker
Low fuel prices continued to spur sales of pick-up trucks said credit quality remained at an acceptable level while
and reduce demand for compact cars. A large auto a South Carolina lender said quality was at an all-time
dealer said that unit sales were down but gross profit per high. Interest rates rose slightly in recent weeks. A lend-
unit was up. er in Virginia noted a sense of urgency from business to
Tourism grew at a normal seasonal pace in recent borrow before interest rates increase further. Competi-
weeks. A Virginia ski resort reported strong weekend tion among banks remained fierce. The trend in mergers
bookings and few cancellations, even during warm and acquisitions continued. Bankers expressed optimism
weather, because of available alternate activities. A that regulatory changes under the new administration
contact on the outer banks of North Carolina said tour- would be more favorable.
ism was little changed at usual off-season levels. Ac-
cording to sources at coastal locations, advance book- Non-Financial Services
ings were at typical levels for this time of year. Revenues at services firms increased at a modest pace. Entertainment venues, accountant services, and trades
Real Estate and Construction associated with home-building reported increases.
Residential real estate sales increased modestly since Healthcare organizations reported robust demand since
the previous report. Contacts reported good levels of the previous Beige Book. An executive at a large
buyer traffic in recent weeks; however some sources healthcare organization said capital projects were being
said snow storms reduced buyer traffic in affected areas. considered to handle the growth. One hospital reported
Brokers reported that inventories generally remained at the opening of many new physician practices associated
low levels, although a few contacts noted slight increas- with the facility.
es for some price ranges. Nonetheless, new listings sold
quickly. Residential builders reported that home starts Agriculture and Natural Resources
and closings increased to moderate levels. Energy markets strengthened modestly in recent weeks. Coal production picked up marginally as the pricing and
Commercial leasing increased moderately in recent regulatory environment improved for them. Natural gas
weeks and was stronger than a year ago according to production was unchanged. A utility executive in Mary-
contacts. Rents rose moderately while vacancy rates land reported a modest increase in energy demand from
edged down. Real estate agents said that industrial and commercial customers but a slight decline in residential
retail leasing remained robust, and available space was connections. Agriculture conditions were largely un-
limited. Meanwhile, office leasing increased modestly. changed at typical seasonal levels. Demand for poultry
Overall, commercial construction remained steady at rose moderately. Some expansions were reported at
modest levels, although a large general contractor re- poultry farms in North Carolina. ■
ported the largest backlog in his firm’s history. Multi-
family and mixed used developments continued to domi-
nate new commercial construction projects. For more information about District economic conditions visit: www.richmondfed.org/research/regional_economy E-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta The Beige Book ■ February 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Business contacts indicated that economic activity in the Sixth District continued to expand, albeit modestly, from the
previous report. The outlook among contacts for the next three to six months remains positive.
The labor market remained tight and wage pressures were mostly subdued. Overall, non-labor input costs remained
modest. Retailers cited steady sales since the previous report. Automobile dealers indicated sales were better than
expected. Tourism activity improved. Residential real estate builders indicated that construction activity was up, and
new home sales and inventory levels were flat to slightly up compared with a year ago. Residential real estate brokers
reported that existing home sales increased and inventory levels were down from a year earlier. Home prices continued
to modestly improve. Demand for commercial real estate continued to improve and commercial construction activity
increased. Manufacturers noted increases in new orders and production.
Employment and Wages tion expectations, year-over-year unit costs were up 1.7
Contacts reported ongoing tightening in the labor market percent in February. The survey respondents indicated
since the previous report. Firms continued to struggle they expect unit costs to rise 2.0 percent over the next
finding workers across various fields and skill levels. 12 months.
Firms continued to note growing partnerships with area Consumer Spending and Tourism
workforce development organizations, community colleg- On balance, District retailers reported that sales levels
es, and universities to develop customized training pro- grew at a steady pace since the last report. Merchants
grams to help develop larger pipelines of talent. Addition- noted that on-line sales levels continued to rise, while
ally, many firms continued to increase investment in brick and mortar sales remained sluggish. Automotive
internal training programs to develop existing personnel, dealers reported stronger-than-expected sales in De-
rather than seek qualified labor across a limited pool of cember.
external candidates. Turnover picked up in banking and
finance, manufacturing, and construction, where some Hospitality contacts across the District reported growth in
industry contacts indicated they had to evaluate and business, leisure, and group travel since the last report.
adjust compensation structures, such as, increasing Georgia contacts stated that business travel and conven-
bonuses and incentive pay, to retain high-quality work- tion bookings continued to be strong. The total number
ers. There were scattered reports of plans to increase of visitors to the state of Florida increased over the re-
employee headcounts over the next 12 months, though porting period, however, there continued to be a slow-
overall, contacts indicated that they intend to keep em- down in the number of international visitors. Louisiana
ployment levels steady. Wage growth continued to be reported increases in hotel occupancies, average daily
evident in select geographic locations and particular rates, and revenue per available rooms since the last
occupations. report. The outlook remains optimistic with healthy ad- vanced bookings through the first quarter of this year.
Prices
Most contacts reported modest non-labor input cost Construction and Real Estate
pressures, except for manufacturing purchasing manag- Reports from District residential real estate contacts
ers who noted greater increases in commodity prices. continued to indicate slow but steady growth in January.
According to the Atlanta Fed's survey of business infla- Most builders noted that construction activity was up F-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
from the year-ago level. Builders continued to indicate Banking and Finance
that home sales were flat to slightly up relative to the Credit remained readily available for most qualified bor-
year-earlier level, while brokers reported an increase in rowers. However, some small and medium-sized busi-
home sales over the same period. The majority of build- nesses continued to have difficulty obtaining credit.
ers and brokers noted that buyer traffic was equal to or Some contacts noted that development projects were
higher than the previous year’s level in January. Brokers being funded by hedge funds and private equity sources,
reported that inventory levels were down relative to a rather than banks.
year ago, while most builders indicated that inventory
levels were flat or rising. Builders and brokers continued Energy
to note modest gains in home prices. Home sales expec- Reports from District energy contacts indicated that
tations improved in January, with most brokers and liquefied natural gas exports from the Gulf Coast region
builders anticipating sales to increase slightly over the increased. Refinery contacts reported that interstate
next three months relative to the year-earlier level. Most pipeline reversals have eased some of the transportation
builders anticipate construction activity will hold steady at costs for moving oil and gas to Gulf Coast refiners. Con-
the current pace or increase slightly over the next three tacts noted crude oil inventories remain at historically
months. high levels. Utility industry contacts continued to upgrade power generation plants to natural gas, and there has
Most commercial real estate contacts noted improve- been continued activity to expand wind generation
ments in demand, resulting in rent growth and increased power.
absorption, but continued to caution that the rate of
improvement varied by metropolitan area, submarket, Agriculture
and property type. Many commercial contractors indicat- Agriculture conditions across the District were mixed. By
ed that the pace of nonresidential construction activity early February, rain brought some improvement to
had increased from a year ago, with many reporting drought conditions. However, much of the District contin-
backlogs greater than one year. Reports on the pace of ued to experience varying degrees of drought with small
multifamily construction continued to be mixed, with areas of north central Alabama and northeastern Geor-
roughly half indicating that the pace had increased from gia categorized in extreme drought. Florida's February
the year-earlier level and the rest suggesting that the orange forecast was down from January, remaining
pace had leveled off or slowed. Looking forward, the below last season's production. On a year-over-year
majority of District commercial real estate contacts ex- basis, prices paid to farmers in December were up for
pect the pace of nonresidential and multifamily construc- cotton, soybeans, and broilers, but down for corn, rice,
tion activity to increase slightly over the next quarter. beef, and eggs. ■
Manufacturing
District manufacturing contacts indicated that overall
business activity expanded since the last report. New
orders and production levels continued to increase.
Supply delivery times were slightly longer, while finished
inventory levels fell. Expectations for future production
rose with nearly two-thirds of firms expecting higher
production levels over the next six months.
Transportation
Transportation activity in the District was relatively un-
changed since the last report. District ports cited contin-
ued growth in shipments of containers, autos, and ma-
chinery. Trucking freight volumes declined further since
the previous report, and carriers indicated they are work-
ing to reduce capacity to improve pricing. Rail contacts,
however, reported that total traffic was flat compared
with year-earlier levels following several months of de-
clines. Intermodal traffic was down slightly. For more information about District economic conditions visit: www.frbatlanta.org/economy-matters/regional-economics F-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago The Beige Book ■ February 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Growth in economic activity in the Seventh District picked up to a moderate pace in January and early February, and
contacts expected activity to continue rising at a moderate pace over the next six to twelve months. Employment, wag-
es, business spending, and manufacturing production all grew at moderate rates, consumer spending increased mod-
estly, and construction and real estate activity rose slightly. Financial conditions were little changed, prices increased
modestly, and farm incomes improved slightly.
Employment and Wages Consumer Spending
Employment growth picked up to a moderate rate over Growth in consumer spending remained modest over the
the reporting period, and contacts expected it to continue reporting period, with sales results weaker than ex-
to rise at a moderate rate over the next six to twelve pected. Contacts reported stronger sales in the food and
months. Contacts continued to indicate that the labor beverage, health and personal care, and general mer-
market is tight and that they are experiencing difficulty chandise sectors and weaker sales in the apparel, gro-
filling positions at all skill levels. A staffing firm again cery, and e-commerce sectors. Light vehicle sales
reported little change in billable hours and ongoing diffi- slowed somewhat, but the pace was still strong and
culty filling orders at the wages employers were willing to incentives remained aggressive. Used vehicle sales held
pay. Wage growth remained at a moderate pace. Some steady.
contacts noted larger wage increases for high-skilled
occupations, while a number indicated that they raised Business Spending
wages nearly equally for all employees. Many contacts Growth in business spending continued at a moderate
also reported rising healthcare costs. pace in January and early February. Most retailers indi- cated that inventories were at comfortable levels. Manu-
Prices facturing inventories were also at desired levels overall,
Overall, prices rose modestly in January and early Feb- though steel service center inventories were very low.
ruary. Despite reports of heavy promotional activity, retail Capital expenditures grew at a moderate pace, and
prices generally increased modestly. Most metals prices contacts expected that pace to continue over the next six
rose again, and an increasing number of firms reported to twelve months. Outlays were primarily for replacing
that rising materials costs were leading them to increase industrial and IT equipment, though there was an in-
their prices. crease in the number of firms reporting spending for expansion. G-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago
Construction and Real Estate Agriculture
Construction and real estate activity increased slightly on Prospects for farm income in 2017 improved slightly in
balance over the reporting period. Residential building January and early February, although the agricultural
increased slightly, with growth concentrated in the single sector continued to operate under stress. Futures prices
-family segment and in urban locations. Home sales moved up enough so that – given expected costs –
increased modestly, while home prices increased slight- some corn and most soybean operations could lock in
ly. Demand for nonresidential construction edged up, small profits for 2017. With profit margins looking to be
with growth concentrated in the industrial and infrastruc- higher for soybeans than for corn, contacts expected a
ture sectors. The pace of commercial real estate activity shift in the mix of planting this year, with one reporting an
continued to be robust and even quickened some, with attendant pickup in sales of soybean seeds. Cattle,
growth in both the for-sale and for-lease segments. One dairy, and hog operations all benefitted from price in-
contact noted that banks continue to be conservative creases . ■
about lending in the sector. Commercial rents, availabil-
ity of sublease space, and commercial vacancy rates
were little changed.
Manufacturing
Manufacturing production again grew at a moderate
pace in January and early February. Growth was wide-
spread across sectors, and even picked up for some
long-struggling sectors. Specialty metals manufacturers
reported increased shipments and steady growth in
order books. Demand for steel remained modest, but
there were early signs of a pickup as steel service cen-
ters began to replenish low inventories. Heavy machin-
ery manufacturers reported an increase in sales overall,
with slow but steady improvements in construction de-
mand outweighing weak agricultural demand. Manufac-
turers of construction materials also reported slow in-
creases in shipments, in line with the modest pace of
improvement in construction. Activity in the autos and
aerospace sectors slowed some but remained at a high
level.
Banking and Finance
Financial conditions were little changed on balance over
the reporting period. Market participants again reported
steady growth in equity prices and low volatility. Loan
volumes to middle-market businesses increased slightly,
which contacts attributed to refinancing in anticipation of
higher interest rates rather than an increase in underly-
ing demand. Contacts reported low delinquency rates,
with the exception of the energy and agriculture sectors.
Consumer loan demand was little changed overall,
though one contact reported an increase in auto loans.
An auto dealer also expressed concerns that standards
were loosening further for sub-prime auto financing.
Credit card volume was steady and delinquencies were
up a bit. For more information about District economic conditions visit: www.chicagofed.org/cfsbc G-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis The Beige Book ■ February 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Economic conditions have continued to expand at a modest pace since our previous report. General retail sales growth
was modest, while manufacturing activity showed signs of strengthening. Conversely, reports from auto dealers indicat-
ed a slight decline in first-quarter sales. Business contacts surveyed in mid-February continued to hold an optimistic
outlook for growth in 2017. On net, 57 percent of contacts expect District economic conditions in 2017 to be better or
somewhat better than last year. This was a slight improvement since contacts were surveyed in mid-November.
Employment and Wages quarter. On net, 44 percent reported non-labor input
Employment has increased modestly since the previous costs were slightly higher or higher.
report. On net, 25 percent of business contacts surveyed A contact in the Louisville manufacturing sector reported
in mid-February reported that first-quarter employment their raw material input costs were slightly higher due to
was higher or slightly higher than a year ago; 18 percent supply shortages of certain chemicals needed higher in
reported hours worked were higher or slightly higher. their supply chain. Since the previous report, cash prices
District contacts continue to report that the labor market of rice and corn have declined slightly, while the prices of
remains tight. Manufacturing, real estate, and construc- sorghum and soybeans were slightly higher and coal
tion contacts in St. Louis reported difficulties finding prices were modestly higher. House prices across the
qualified candidates, and contacts in Memphis and Lou- District also increased moderately. A residential real
isville reported an inability to fill key positions. estate contact in the St. Louis area reported raw material
Contacts reported moderate wage growth since the prices have climbed.
previous report. On net, 63 percent of contacts reported Consumer Spending
wages were slightly higher or higher than a year ago. General retail sales growth has been modest since our
Contacts in Little Rock reported that wages for skilled previous report and contacts continued to hold an opti-
workers continue to increase slowly, with more employ- mistic outlook for 2017. Most general retailers reported a
ees changing employers for higher wages. Contacts in slight increase in year-over-year sales halfway through
Memphis and Louisville reported upward pressure on the first quarter. Similarly, the majority of hospitality
wages for both skilled and unskilled positions. contacts in St. Louis, Memphis, and Little Rock indicated
Prices that sales during this period met expectations and that
Price pressures have increased modestly since our they anticipate sustained growth in the months to come.
previous report. A greater share of business contacts On the other hand, a hospitality contact in Louisville
surveyed reported higher prices charged to consumers reported that occupancy rates are projected to decrease
than in previous surveys. On net, 33 percent of contacts this year after a strong 2016. Reports from auto dealers
reported prices were slightly higher than a year ago and indicate a slight decline in year-over-year sales in the
a similar share expect price increases during the second first quarter. Half of surveyed auto dealers reported a H-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
shift in demand toward used vehicles, and the remaining slim majority of local real estate contacts reported that
dealers reported no change. residential construction activity was slightly higher than a year ago halfway through the first quarter, and a similar
Manufacturing fraction of respondents expect construction to continue
Manufacturing activity has increased at a moderate pace to increase into the second quarter.
since our previous report. Several companies reported
capital expenditure and facility expansion plans in the Commercial real estate activity has improved at a mod-
District, including motor vehicle, food product, and wood erate pace since the previous report. A majority of re-
product manufacturers. In a recent survey, contacts spondents indicated an increase in demand for both
reported an improvement in manufacturing conditions. A office and industrial properties compared with the same
strong majority reported that production, new orders, and time last year. Meanwhile, most contacts reported no
capacity utilization increased in the first quarter relative change in demand for retail and multifamily properties.
to one year ago. This is an improvement from our previ- These trends are expected to continue in the coming
ous survey, when most contacts reported no change in months. Commercial construction activity improved
activity from one year earlier. Contacts were also opti- modestly. Local construction contacts continued to report
mistic about the second quarter, with three-fourths ex- a rise in demand for office and retail properties.
pecting further growth in production, new orders, and Banking and Finance
capacity utilization. Despite the optimistic outlook, some Banking conditions in the District have improved at a
contacts expressed concerns about labor shortages and moderate pace since the previous report. Banking con-
possible trade restrictions. tacts report moderate to robust year-over-year growth in
Nonfinancial Services demand for business and mortgage loans. District bank-
Responses from the service sector have been positive ers also indicate that the credit quality of applicants for
since the previous report. In particular, several firms that these two loan categories was markedly higher during
provide information technology services, leisure and the relevant period compared with last year. Since the
hospitality services, and healthcare announced plans to previous report, there has been an uptick in the number
build new or expand current facilities and hire new em- of bankers reporting deteriorating credit quality among
ployees. Reports from the transportation sector were agricultural loan applicants. Nevertheless, contacts
positive, with two large employers hiring new employees indicate that delinquency rates were slightly improved
and renovating facilities. Reports from the professional across all loan categories. The overall outlook among
business services and warehousing sectors were banking contacts is positive, with contacts citing expecta-
mixed—some existing employers reduced employment tions of modestly higher loan demand and the possibility
while new companies began hiring. About two-thirds of of regulatory relief reducing compliance costs.
service and transportation contacts reported sales met or Agriculture and Natural Resources
exceeded expectations in the current quarter, and two- Agriculture conditions were unchanged from the previous
thirds of contacts expect dollar sales to be higher in the report. As of the end of January, more than 94 percent of
second quarter than at the same time last year. District winter wheat was rated fair or better, a slight
Real Estate and Construction improvement over crop condition at the end of January
Residential real estate activity has improved slightly 2016 and the current crop’s condition at the end of De-
since our previous report. Real estate contacts reported cember. However, contacts reported that lower grain
mixed home sales activity, indicating little change in prices continued to affect farmers in the area, who have
overall sales. Nearly half of respondents indicated that further reduced investment in land and equipment.
sales fell short of expectations midway through the first Natural resource extraction conditions improved slightly
quarter, citing reasons such as low inventory levels and from the previous report, with coal production stabilizing
higher mortgage rates. Still, many real estate contacts and higher coal prices helping profits. District seasonally-
expect demand to improve in the second quarter, push- adjusted coal production was little changed from Decem-
ing single-family sales above one year ago. Residential ber to January, while production was 10 percent above
construction activity has improved slightly since the last year’s level. ■
previous report. December construction starts ticked up,
while there was a minor decrease in permit activity. A For more information about District economic conditions visit: www.research.stlouisfed.org/regecon/ H-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis The Beige Book ■ February 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
The Ninth District economy grew modestly overall since the last report. Employment grew moderately, accompanied by
moderate wage and price pressures. The District economy showed growth in manufacturing, residential construction,
energy, and mining. But real estate and consumer spending were mixed, commercial construction slowed, and agricul-
ture remained weak.
Employment and Wages Wage pressure was moderate to strong since the last
Employment grew moderately since the last report. Ad report. A Minnesota state official noted that wages grew
hoc employer surveys in a Minneapolis-St. Paul suburb 4 percent in 2016, and manufacturing paychecks rose by
and in Michigan’s Upper Peninsula found that more than even more. Ad hoc surveys of employers in two regions
one-quarter were adding headcount, while only 5 percent suggested that average wages in these locations grew
were cutting jobs. A monthly manufacturing index about 3 percent in 2016. Their wage expectations for
showed strong increases in hiring expectations in 2017 were slightly lower; however, given tight labor
December and January for Minnesota and the Dakotas. conditions, a lower wage outlook for 2017 might stem
Initial unemployment insurance (UI) claims in January from historical expectations of long-standing wage
were about one-fourth lower compared with a year stagnation. The owner of a southern Minnesota staffing
earlier. A staffing agency in southern Minnesota said that agency expected manufacturing wages in the region to
client calls and overall business were increasing, and grow 8 percent to 10 percent in the coming year.
another in Minneapolis-St. Paul said job orders were flat “There’s a huge demand and low supply. Wages need to
in January, but clients expected activity to pick up. Job match in order to supply workforce.”
fairs were held by a frac sand mine in western Wisconsin
and oil companies in the Bakken oil patch; a builders’ Prices
group in Minnesota held a job fair to fill 200 openings. Price pressures were moderate since the last report.
However, January online job openings in North Dakota Sources in the construction sector noted that mounting
continued to decline compared to previous-month and labor and materials input prices were driving up
previous-year levels. Major upheavals continued in retail, construction costs. An industry report indicated that
where national outlets have seen significant layoffs in Minneapolis-St. Paul construction prices were expected
Minneapolis-St. Paul, Fargo, N.D., Sioux Falls, S.D., and to increase 3 percent in 2017, a faster pace than in
elsewhere. A South Dakota manufacturer announced 2016. A utility was increasing gas and electric rates.
“substantial” but unspecified layoffs, and the closure of Most prices received by farmers decreased in December
an engineering facility in Minneapolis-St. Paul will affect from a year earlier, with the exception of soybeans, milk,
up to 72 workers. chickens, and hogs. I-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis
Consumer Spending diversion project in Fargo. Residential construction was
Consumer spending across the District was mixed since strong. Permitted units in January for both single- and
the last report. A Minnesota-based retailer reported multi-family units were significantly higher than a year
weaker sales due to a continuing shift toward online earlier in Minneapolis-St. Paul and Sioux Falls.
shopping. Two large national retailers and two Residential construction was also higher in Fargo, but
nationwide clothing retailers closed their doors in the lower in Billings, Mont., and Rochester, Minn.
Twin Cities market due to poor sales. However, analysts Commercial real estate remained healthy, with some
report reason for optimism in the Twin Cities retail sector softening. Vacancy rates in Minneapolis-St. Paul were
overall. In Sioux Falls, S.D., retailers saw a slight uptick low but have risen recently in the retail and office
in spending, “but not by much,” a retailer commented. A categories. Industrial vacancies there remained low, with
mall manager in Montana reported that the mall was significant new space either under construction or in
expanding by 40,000 square feet, effectively doubling development. Home sales in January were mixed from a
the size of a mid-priced department store, while also year earlier. They were slightly higher in western
refurbishing the mall with updates and new amenities. Wisconsin and the Flathead, Mont., region, and flat in
Reports from grocers were mixed; for instance, Sioux Falls and northern Wisconsin. Home sales were
Minnesota was seeing the entrance of new grocers, slightly lower in Minneapolis-St. Paul, though it was the
while a large grocery retailer posted a loss in earnings third-strongest January since 2005. Several sources
since the last report. A North Dakota-based construction attributed the softness to late-2016 sales, as consumers
and farm equipment dealership announced the closure locked in rates before a mid-December rise in the Fed
of eight stores in the Dakotas and Minnesota. Funds rate.
Tourism Manufacturing
Tourism conditions were mixed. Snow conditions in the District manufacturing activity increased moderately
northernmost regions of the Ninth District provided since the last report. An index of manufacturing
steady recreational tourism activity, according to industry conditions produced by Creighton University indicated
officials. Regions to the south saw a decline in increased activity in January compared to a month
recreational activity since the last report due to poor earlier in Minnesota and South Dakota; the index
snow conditions. Elsewhere, casino-related revenues in indicated decreased activity in North Dakota. Two
Deadwood, S.D., suffered a significant decline—as much contract equipment manufacturers reported an increase
as 25 percent at some operators—leaving one industry in orders in late 2016 and optimistic expectations for
spokesperson to comment that the drop was “alarming.” 2017. A boat maker received a large contract to produce
At the same time, a large gaming firm was expanding barges. A Minnesota candy maker opened a new
and improving its resort in South Dakota, stating production facility.
confidence in the local industry and an interest in
catering to changing consumer tastes. Agriculture, Energy and Natural Resources District agricultural conditions remained weak since the
Construction and Real Estate previous report. Respondents to the Minneapolis Fed’s
Construction activity was mixed since the last report. most recent (January) survey of agricultural credit
Commercial construction slowed. Projects out for bid in conditions indicated that farm incomes and capital
early January were below levels of a year ago but spending fell in the fourth quarter of 2016 relative to a
subsequently increased and by early February were on year earlier, with similar expectations for the coming
par with last year, according to an industry database. three months. Activity in the energy and mining sectors
January commercial permitting was lower compared with increased since the last report. As of mid-February, oil
a year earlier in most District metros. However, sources and gas drilling in the Bakken region of North Dakota
were optimistic about near-term activity, especially in was up slightly from a month earlier. Federal regulators
Minneapolis-St. Paul, where major projects were waiting granted a license to a potential $1 billion project in
to break ground. In Montana, $144 million in previously Montana that would store energy from wind production
suspended road construction projects moved forward. In and other sources. Production at operating District iron
North Dakota, preliminary work has begun on a $250 ore facilities was near full capacity, with an idled facility
million airport in Williston and a $2.1 billion flood scheduled to resume production in coming months. ■ I-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City The Beige Book ■ February 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
District economic activity continued to expand modestly compared to the previous survey period, and contacts in most
sectors expected additional gains in the months ahead. Consumer spending in January was modestly above year-ago
levels, with retailers and auto dealers expecting stronger sales in the next few months. The manufacturing sector contin-
ued to expand moderately, and contacts in the professional, high-tech, transportation and wholesale trade sectors re-
ported increased sales. District real estate conditions were mixed as activity in the residential sector fell slightly and the
commercial real estate sector expanded modestly. Energy activity increased moderately, and energy contacts remained
optimistic, although some noted concerns about labor availability and increases in the costs of oilfield services. District
farm income remained subdued, and agricultural credit conditions weakened modestly. Employment and employee
hours edged up in January, and wages increased slightly. Prices rose slightly since the previous survey.
Employment and Wages ing prices steady. Restaurant input prices were stable,
Employment and employee hours edged up in January. while menu prices edged up. In the transportation sector,
Respondents in the professional and high-tech services, input prices rose moderately and selling prices increased
real estate, health services and manufacturing sectors modestly. Both input and selling prices were expected to
noted an increase in employment levels since the previ- grow moderately in the months ahead in the transporta-
ous survey, while respondents in the transportation, tion sector. Construction prices rose slightly, and moder-
restaurant, and tourism sectors noted a decline. Employ- ate price increases were anticipated in the coming
ment in the retail sector was higher than year-ago levels, months. Manufacturers reported steady prices for fin-
and employment in the auto sector remained steady. ished goods, while raw material costs continued to edge
Contacts across all sectors, except auto and tourism, up. Manufacturers anticipated slight increases in both
expected an increase in employment in the coming finished goods and raw materials prices in the next few
months. Average employee hours picked up in both the months.
manufacturing and service sectors since the previous Consumer Spending
survey period, and additional gains were expected in the Consumer spending increased modestly in January
next few months. Respondents noted a shortage of compared to year-ago levels, and respondents expected
commercial drivers, salespeople, and service workers. additional gains in the months ahead. Retail sales re-
Contacts in most sectors reported that the pace of wage mained above year-ago levels, despite being lower than
growth slowed compared to the prior survey, but wages the previous survey period. Several retailers noted an
still rose slightly. In addition, moderate wage growth was increase in sales for household appliances and sale
anticipated in the coming months. items, while luxury and seasonal products sold poorly. Retailers anticipated sales to rise moderately in the next
Prices few months, and inventory levels were expected to in-
Overall, input prices rose slightly compared to the prior crease slightly. Auto sales decreased since the previous
survey period, and contacts expected additional price survey, but remained modestly above year-ago levels.
increases in the months ahead. Respondents in the retail Dealer contacts expected a solid pickup in sales in the
sector reported slightly higher input prices but held sell- months ahead. Auto inventories were mostly flat but J-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City
were expected to rise slightly. Restaurant sales in Janu- Banking
ary were above year-ago levels, and contacts in the Most bankers reported steady overall loan demand in
restaurant sector expected sales to remain relatively flat January and early February. A majority of respondents
heading forward. District tourism activity was well above indicated a steady demand for commercial and industri-
year-ago levels, but contacts expected a slight decline in al, commercial real estate, residential real estate, agri-
activity heading into the spring months. cultural and consumer installment loans. Most bankers indicated loan quality was unchanged compared to a
Manufacturing and Other Business Activity year ago. In addition, a majority of respondents expected
Manufacturing activity continued to expand moderately, loan quality to remain essentially the same over the next
and other business contacts reported increased sales. six months. Credit standards remained largely un-
Manufacturers reported considerable improvement in changed in all major loan categories. Finally, a majority
durable goods production since the previous survey, of respondents reported stable deposit levels.
particularly for metals, electronics, and machinery, while
nondurable goods plants expanded at a modest pace. Energy
Production, shipments, and new orders all increased Energy activity across the District increased moderately
compared to the previous survey. Manufacturers’ capital in January and early February, and the outlook remained
spending plans expanded moderately, and firms’ expec- optimistic. The number of active oil and gas drilling rigs
tations for future activity were at their highest levels in continued to increase modestly, primarily in Oklahoma
over twelve years. and New Mexico as activity focused on the Oklahoma
Outside of manufacturing, contacts in the professional, SCOOP and STACK plays and the Permian Basin in
high-tech, and transportation sectors reported moderate New Mexico. Respondents expected global markets to
increases in sales, with strong gains anticipated in future balance by mid-year, and thus, projected oil prices to
months. Wholesale trade contacts noted a slight uptick in increase further throughout 2017. However, they re-
sales and expected activity to increase sharply heading mained cautious given the rapid increase in domestic
forward. Professional, high-tech, and wholesale trade activity. Some respondents expressed concern about
firms reported favorable capital spending plans, while labor availability and increases in the costs of oilfield
transportation contacts expected capital spending to services. On the natural gas side, spot prices fell some-
continue to fall. what in January amid warmer-than-usual temperatures. However, lower natural gas production was expected to
Real Estate and Construction keep prices from falling significantly.
District real estate activity was mixed as residential real
estate conditions deteriorated slightly while the commer- Agriculture
cial real estate sector expanded modestly. Residential Farm income remained subdued in the Tenth District,
home sales declined slightly, and inventories moved and farmland values declined modestly since the last
moderately lower since the previous survey period. reporting period. Cattle, wheat, and corn prices were
Contacts expected a moderate increase in sales during lower than a year ago in early February and continued to
the spring months due to seasonal factors. Home prices weigh on farm income in the District, despite slight im-
increased strongly, and sales of low- and medium-priced provements in hog and soybean prices. All District states
homes outpaced sales of higher-priced homes. Housing reported slightly lower farm income and expected further
starts declined, but construction supply sales increased. declines in the coming months. Farmland values and
Respondents expected overall residential construction cash rental rates for farmland continued to trend lower at
activity to increase in the months ahead. Activity across a modest pace and were also expected to decline further
the commercial real estate sector expanded modestly in in the months ahead. Alongside persistent declines in
January and early February as vacancy rates declined farm income and farmland values, agricultural credit
and absorption, completions, construction underway, conditions weakened modestly, as farm loan repayment
sales and prices increased. Contacts expected the com- rates edged lower and demand for short-term financing
mercial real estate sector to expand further in the coming remained strong. ■
months. For more information about District economic conditions visit: www.KansasCityFed.org/Research/RegionalEconomy J-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas The Beige Book ■ February 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Economic activity in the Eleventh District expanded moderately over the past six weeks. Manufacturing demand
strengthened, and activity among nonfinancial services firms increased. Retail sales generally rose, although there were
some reports of weakness. Housing demand was solid, with gains in home sales. Loan demand increased, and the
energy sector improved modestly. The agricultural sector improved thanks to favorable weather and rising crop and
cattle prices. Employment and wages increased, as did prices. Outlooks generally improved.
Employment and Wages Manufacturing
Overall employment rose, with hiring relatively strong in The manufacturing sector expanded again over the past
manufacturing and relatively weak in retail. Energy con- six weeks. Output growth remained a bit stronger for
tacts reported that layoffs were mostly done, and that durable goods than nondurables, although weakness
there were even several signs of hiring activity ramping persisted in fabricated metals —a segment with strong
up. Reports of skilled labor shortages continued, particu- ties to the energy industry. However, a few fabricated
larly in manufacturing and construction, and restaurant metals manufacturers indicated activity has begun to
contacts said hiring qualified people remains a huge increase in 2017. Exports remained a source of weak-
problem. Upward wage pressures were similar to the last ness for firms that sell internationally, with the strong
reporting period. One contact remarked that increases in dollar and softness in Mexico’s economy hurting sales.
health care costs are more than they can pass on to Overall, outlooks remained positive. A few manufacturing
employees. contacts said their customers held a “wait and see” approach and that there is considerable uncertainty,
Prices including over the potential impacts related to policy
Input costs continued to rise during the reporting period, changes from the Trump Administration.
with relatively strong upward pressure in manufacturing
raw materials prices. Selling prices generally rose, with Gulf Coast refiners noted seasonally strong utilization
more widespread inflation reported among manufactur- rates, despite lower margins in January. The competitive
ers and retailers. Some services companies noted that advantage of domestic chemical manufacturers (who
input price increases remained difficult to pass along. use natural gas instead of oil as an input) has increased
Railroad contacts noted downward pressure on prices in 2017 thanks to a larger spread between oil and natural
due to excess capacity. Oil prices held steady while gas prices. The outlook for chemical firms remained
natural gas prices drifted downward. Agricultural com- healthy because this feedstock cost advantage is ex-
modity prices generally increased. pected to persist. Refinery business is not expected to fare as well in 2017 as in 2016, as large inventories and expectations of moderate demand growth will keep K-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
margins modest. Financial Services Loan demand increased over the past six weeks. Most
Retail Sales respondents noted increased total loan balances, paral-
Retail demand continued to rise during the reporting leled by improvement in general business activity. Com-
period, although at a slightly slower pace than the prior mercial real estate and mortgage loans were among the
period. One clothing retailer said sales in border cities better performing categories over the reporting period,
and energy-related areas remained sluggish. Auto sales and consumer loan demand ticked up. Lenders involved
declined, with one auto dealer noting that the January in auto loans noted that delinquency rates continued to
seasonal decline was greater than normal. Overall, rise. Contacts reported higher interest rates charged on
outlooks among retailers remained mostly optimistic. loans as well as higher interest rates paid on deposits.
Nonfinancial Services Respondents expressed optimism about loan demand
Demand for nonfinancial services generally continued to and general business activity over the next six months.
increase over the past six weeks, with numerous reports
of rising business activity. Most staffing services firms Energy Demand for oilfield services increased in the Permian
saw a pickup in demand. Staffing demand remained Basin, and the district rig count increased. Outlooks for
particularly strong in Dallas, with a surge in information 2017 were more positive than in the last reporting period,
technology, and rose slightly in Houston, including in the but remain slightly guarded. Contacts were unanimously
oil and gas sector. Professional and technical services negative in their expectations about the impact of the
firms noted increased revenues, while several reports proposed border adjustment tax on their firms. Regard-
from leisure and hospitality firms cited declines. Trans- ing price risks for the year, firms noted a downward bias,
portation services firms noted mixed movements in with inventories keeping a lid on oil prices at around $60
cargo volumes. Overall, most services firms noted im- per barrel and lingering uncertainty around OPEC’s
proved outlooks. However, several expressed concern ability to achieve its targeted production cuts for the first
about uncertainty surrounding the new administration’s half of 2017.
potential policy changes and the resulting impact of
those changes. Agriculture Moisture levels remained favorable across the district.
Construction and Real Estate The wheat crop was in great shape, and row crop pro-
Home sales rose during the reporting period, with con- ducers began field preparation in many areas and even
tacts noting a good start to 2017. Lot prices continued to started planting in some of the southern parts of Texas.
escalate in DFW, were steady to up in Austin, and flat to Cattle prices continued to rally, due in part to seasonality
down in Houston. Home prices remained elevated, alt- but also a combination of ample demand and a tighter
hough some discounting was noted in Houston, and supply of cattle ready for market. Contacts noted an
contacts there said it was becoming difficult to pass increase in beef exports. Cotton exports have been
through further increases. Outlooks were positive, but trending up so far this quarter, thanks in part to the
contacts expressed some concern about downward strong quality of the 2016 cotton crop. Cotton prices
pressure on builders’ margins and the potential impact of were relatively strong, and contacts expect a large in-
rising mortgage rates. crease in cotton acreage this year. Other crop prices
Apartment demand stayed solid, and occupancy rates trended up over the reporting period. Wheat prices still
generally remained high. In Houston, despite better-than generally remained below breakeven prices, but corn
-expected demand overall, occupancy dipped and rent and sorghum prices rose to a profitable level for many
concessions continued to be offered. This was particular- producers. ■
ly the case for class A product due to a surplus of new
deliveries and completions. Rents rose further in most
major metros, but contacts expect rent growth to moder-
ate this year. Austin and DFW office markets remained
strong, while continued weakness was noted in Houston.
Industrial availability was tight in most major metros. For more information about District economic conditions visit: www.dallasfed.org/research/texas K-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco The Beige Book ■ February 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Economic activity in the Twelfth District continued to expand at a moderate pace during the reporting period of mid-
January through February. Overall price inflation was mild, while upward wage pressures strengthened. Sales of retail
goods picked up, and activity in the consumer and business services sector slowed slightly to a moderate pace. Condi-
tions in the manufacturing sector remained mixed, and activity in the agriculture sector was largely unchanged. Contacts
reported continued vigorous activity in residential real estate markets, while activity in the commercial sector expanded
at a moderate pace. Lending activity grew at a moderate pace.
Employment and Wages Retail Trade and Services
Wage pressures intensified in general as labor market Retail sales picked up from the previous period. On
conditions remained tight throughout much of the Dis- balance, contacts continued to report that e-commerce
trict. Seasonal job loss in the retail sector was less pro- sales were strong, and retailers continued to shift invest-
nounced at the end of the holiday season than in previ- ment away from traditional brick-and-mortar establish-
ous years. Talent shortages in the technology industry ments towards online channels. Retail supermarkets
have increased the time required to fill positions and the experienced solid sales volumes, and major chains
cost per hire. Contacts in the agriculture sector noted continued to improve online retail and store pickup op-
that proposed changes in immigration policy could limit tions. Demand for apparel products was moderate and
labor supply, particularly during harvest season, and flat relative to the previous reporting period. Sales of
drive up wage costs. In the financial services industry, automobiles softened somewhat but remained compara-
shortages of skilled bankers and credit analysts have ble to last year’s average pace.
boosted wages for those occupations. One contact in the Activity in the consumer and business services sector
hospitality industry reported a continued shortage of slowed slightly to a moderate pace. Robust demand for
workers across all job categories despite wage increas- cloud computing services and investments in data cen-
es, signing bonuses, and increased recruiting efforts. ters continued to support strong growth in the technology
Shortages of construction workers and contractors per- service sector. While demand for health-care services
sisted. expanded at a strong pace, and providers continued to
Prices innovate delivery systems, uncertainty surrounding fed-
Overall price increases were mild during the reporting eral health-care policy slowed capital investment. Tour-
period. Prices of building materials increased from an ism picked up to a strong level, but contacts voiced
already elevated level. While global prices remained low concerns that changes in immigration policy would re-
for many agricultural commodities, contacts reported that duce international visits. Activity in the hospitality indus-
prices for some grains recently picked up. Pressure from try weakened slightly, but advance bookings for the
online sellers slowed price inflation somewhat in parts of summer months at Southern California hotels were
the retail sector. Contacts in the apparel industry noted above levels experienced in the prior year. Contacts in
that implementing a border tax could have a significant the nonprofit sector noted that uncertainty around envi-
impact on the prices of imported apparel products. ronmental and alternative energy policy remained a major concern for growth prospects over the near term. L-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco
Manufacturing Financial Institutions
Conditions in the manufacturing sector remained mixed. Lending activity continued to expand at a moderate pace
New orders and production of manufactured pharmaceu- over the reporting period. Loan demand grew at moder-
ticals remained strong. Conditions in the semiconductor ate pace, similar to the prior period. One contact noted
industry stabilized, but exporters remain concerned that consolidation in the financial services industry had
about the value of the dollar and potential trade conflicts. reduced financing options for small businesses. On
Contacts reported that steel mill capacity utilization re- balance, deposits ticked up. Credit quality remained
mained below its long-run average, as a strong dollar strong, and liquidity was ample. ■
and weak global demand slowed exports and boosted
imports. Orders of commercial aircraft dipped, and deliv-
eries were flat compared with the same period last year.
Contacts in the metals fabrication industry noted that
heavy equipment sales were weak, reducing demand for
manufactured parts and accessories.
Agriculture and Resource-Related Industries
Activity in the agriculture sector was little changed from
the previous reporting period. Demand for timber re-
mained strong, and contacts reported that domestic
wood products manufacturers expanded production as
input costs were low and margins remained favorable. A
major buyer of barley notified producers in Idaho that
their purchases would decrease by 30 percent in 2017.
Weak global prices and increased production costs in
California further reduced rice plantings. Overall, the
elevated dollar continued to suppress agriculture ex-
ports. Wet winter conditions increased snowpack in the
Sierra Nevada, and contacts expected increased water
supplies to boost harvests later this year.
Real Estate and Construction
Real estate market activity grew at a vigorous pace as in
the previous reporting period. On balance, activity in the
housing market remained strong, but conditions varied
by region. Shortages of land, labor, and materials in
many major cities in the West somewhat tempered the
rapid pace of construction activity, while a few rural
regions noted that tight financial conditions remained a
barrier to new construction. House prices edged up
further in much of the District, with contacts in Los Ange-
les reporting that many communities expect significant
gentrification in the coming years. Rents continued to
climb in parts of the District, making homeownership
relatively more attractive. Commercial construction activ-
ity expanded at a moderate pace, except in downtown
Sacramento, where construction activity continued to be
robust. L-2



