National Summary The Beige Book ■ April 2017 Overall Economic Activity Economic activity increased in each of the twelve Federal Reserve Districts between mid-February and the end of March, with the pace of expansion equally split between modest and moderate. In addition, the pickup was evident to varying degrees across economic sectors. Manufacturing continued to expand at a modest to moderate pace, although growth in freight shipments slowed slightly. Consumer spending varied as reports of stronger light vehicle sales were accompanied by somewhat softer readings in non-auto retail spending. Tourism and travel activity generally picked up. On balance, reports suggested that residential construction growth accelerated somewhat even as growth in home sales slowed, in part due to a lack of inventory. Nonresidential construction remained strong, but became more mixed in some regions; leasing activity generally improved at a more modest pace. More than half of the reports suggested that loan volumes increased, while only one said they were down modestly. Non-financial services generally continued to expand steadily. Energy-related businesses noted improved conditions while agricultural conditions varied. Employment and Wages Employment expanded across the nation and increases ranged from modest to moderate during this period. Labor markets remained tight, and employers in most Districts had more difficulty filling low-skilled positions, although labor demand was stronger for higher skilled workers. Modest wage increases broadened, and reports noted bigger increas- es for workers with skills that are in short supply. A larger number of firms mentioned higher turnover rates and more difficulty retaining workers. A couple of Districts reported that worker shortages and increased labor costs were re- straining growth in some sectors, including manufacturing, transportation, and construction. Businesses generally expected labor demand to increase moderately in the next six months, and looked for modest wage growth. Prices On balance, prices rose modestly since the previous report. Input prices generally increased at a modest rate and outpaced gains in selling prices, which rose only slightly. Price increases were noted for some building materials, such as lumber and concrete, whereas metal prices remained fairly stable. Retail prices rose moderately, on the whole. Energy prices were flat to slightly lower. Reports on agriculture prices varied, with increases in cotton, peanuts, chick- ens, and hogs, and declines for corn and wheat. Home prices generally moved slightly higher. Businesses mostly expected mild to moderate price growth to persist in the next several months.
Highlights by Federal Reserve District
Boston New York
Overall activity expanded and most business contacts Economic activity has expanded modestly. Labor mar-
reported modest to moderate increases in revenues. kets remained tight and wages continued to grow mod-
Firms continued to cite difficulty filling selected positions erately. Input cost pressures have remained fairly wide-
and planned small wage increases, if any. Prices were spread, while selling prices have continued to increase
said to be stable or up slightly. Respondents said their at a modest pace. Housing markets have improved
outlook remained positive. somewhat except at the high end, while commercial real estate markets have been steady to slacker. 1

 National Summary
Philadelphia St. Louis
Overall, economic activity continued to rise modestly in Economic activity has continued to increase at a modest
the Third District with continued moderate growth among pace. Reports from retail contacts suggest a modest
manufacturers and homebuilders. However, activity was uptick in consumer spending after a slow start to the
essentially flat in several other sectors, including con- year. District activity in natural resource extraction also
sumer spending. Many contacts remained cautiously improved modestly from the previous report. February
optimistic. In general, employment, wages, and prices District coal production was 10 percent higher than one
continued to rise at a modest pace. year ago.
Cleveland Minneapolis
The economy expanded at a moderate pace, as im- Ninth District economic activity increased modestly
proved consumer and business expectations have during the reporting period. The heavy construction,
boosted activity levels and hiring for some businesses. manufacturing, energy, and mining sectors saw growth,
Conditions in manufacturing improved, but some manu- while commercial real estate activity was steady at
facturers remain notably cautious. Housing market con- strong levels. Consumer spending was down, and a
ditions have cooled slightly but remain above year-ago wave of retail closures continued across the District,
levels. Pressures from input prices continued to rise. affecting both large and small stores.
Richmond Kansas City
Economic activity increased at a slightly faster, but still Economic activity in the Tenth District increased moder-
modest pace. Warmer weather brought out more tour- ately. Manufacturing activity expanded at a strong pace,
ists, and manufacturing continued to rebound amidst and energy activity continued to rebound following sever-
stronger new orders, including from overseas. However, al years of decline. Consumer spending rose modestly
tighter margins cut into manufacturers’ capital spending with the exception of autos which fell moderately. Agri-
plans. Labor demand strengthened, but skills shortages cultural conditions remained generally weak with some
constrained output in some industries, notably home- improvement in cattle and soybean markets. Employ-
building. Wages and prices rose at a slightly faster pace. ment was modestly higher, and prices rose slightly.
Atlanta Dallas
Economic activity increased modestly. The labor market Economic activity grew moderately in the Eleventh Dis-
remained tight with firms noting increased use of training trict. Retail sales growth accelerated slightly, and the
programs. Wage pressures were reported for high de- nonfinancial services sector continued to expand. The
mand positions. Retail sales were soft. Manufacturers energy sector picked up notably, and a rebound was
noted a solid increase in new orders and production. seen in fabricated metals manufacturing—a segment
Drought and cold weather impacted agriculture condi- with strong ties to oil and gas. Employment continued to
tions. rise, and prices generally increased, except in retail. Overall outlooks generally improved.
Chicago
Growth continued at a moderate pace. Employment, San Francisco
wages, and manufacturing production grew at moderate Economic activity in the Twelfth District continued to
rates, while prices, business spending, and construction expand at a moderate pace. The labor market continued
and real estate activity increased modestly. Consumer to tighten. Activity in the retail sector improved moderate-
spending was flat, financial conditions were little ly, and sales of business services remained strong.
changed, and lower crop prices put further stress on the Conditions in the agriculture sector expanded modestly,
agricultural sector. while activity in the manufacturing sector was stable. Contacts reported strong activity in the housing market and moderate growth in overall lending activity. 2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Boston The Beige Book ■ April 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Business activity continued to expand in the First District in recent months, with the year-over-year pace of increase said
to be modest to moderate. Most responding retailers and all contacted manufacturers and software and information
technology services firms reported increases in revenue from a year earlier when contacted in early April. Commercial
real estate markets were somewhat mixed in the region. Residential real estate markets across the region saw price
increases and sales declines in February compared with a year earlier, which contacts attributed to low inventories.
Across sectors, hiring was reportedly modest as were wage increases, while many respondents cited difficulty filling a
range of positions. Retailers and manufacturers said some selling prices were up modestly. Most responding firms cited
a positive outlook amid some ongoing policy uncertainty.
Employment and Wages Prices
Labor markets in the First District continued to tighten Business contacts reported modest price increases, if
somewhat. Many employers sought to add modestly to any. Retailers said prices remained steady or were up by
head counts (although one manufacturer laid off about 4 only small amounts. Restaurant respondents said their
percent of staff over the last year), while wage increases ability to raise menu prices to offset higher labor costs
were modest. Some smaller retailers noted increasing was limited by declines in grocery store prices. Pricing
labor costs, in part driven by increases in state minimum reports from manufacturers were mixed: six of ten con-
wages being implemented over a multi-year period. tacts said that input prices had not changed; the others
Restaurant contacts, particularly in heavy tourism re- generally cited idiosyncratic factors causing price in-
gions, expressed concern about possible labor shortag- creases. Most manufacturers reported increases in the
es this summer, exacerbated by an expected slowdown price of the goods they sell but such increases were not
in granting H-2B visas. Half of contacted manufacturers large.
were hiring, though none in large numbers; several firms
said it was hard to find workers. One respondent said Retail and Tourism
that during a recent six-month attempt to add to staff for Retail contacts consulted for this round reported that
a new product, two-thirds of applicants for assembly line comparable-store sales between mid-February and the
jobs were screened out before hiring via math tests and end of March ranged from slightly down to mid-single
drug tests; of 400 workers hired, only 180 worked out. digit increases from a year earlier. Some brick and mor-
All software and IT services respondents said they tar stores have seen a drop in customer traffic, but this
expect to grant wage increases in the low single digits was balanced by increases in the average sale amount.
and plan net increases in headcount between zero and 3 The outlook for 2017 is generally optimistic.
percent through the end of the year. They reported that A contact in the restaurant industry reported that Q1
high-skill positions such as engineers and data scientists sales, when tallied, should be up 1 percent to 2 percent
were increasingly hard to fill, and covering attrition over last year, helped by the relatively mild winter. Re-
remained a challenge in both technical and unskilled spondents said expected visa reductions and limited
areas; for example, one contact noted difficulty covering ability to raise prices augmented uncertainty about the
very high attrition in a Maine call center. outlook, acting as a check on their plans for expansion. A-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Boston
Manufacturing and Related Services Office construction activity continued to be restrained
All ten contacted manufacturers said sales were higher across the District. Apartment construction activity
in recent periods versus the comparable period a year remained significant but the pace of new deliveries
ago. Reports ranged from growth that was slow and slowed and the pipeline of planned projects contracted
below expectations for a data and publishing firm to somewhat amid evidence of slowing rent growth.
“tremendous growth” for a packaging firm. The latter firm Respondents noted that borrowing rates for commercial
said that increased e-commerce was driving increases in property loans were flat despite recent increases in short
demand for boxes for mailing. Otherwise, firms reported -term rates. Most contacts expect further improvements
sales growth that was in line with expectations. in their respective commercial real estate markets mov- ing forward, but likely at a slower pace. A Hartford con-
Most contacts reported that capital expenditures were tact was somewhat less optimistic, citing drags on
confined to maintenance of existing equipment. Two growth related to severe fiscal strain in his state, while a
exceptions were a chemical manufacturer looking for a Providence contact was more upbeat, based on signs
site for a new plant, having exhausted the avenues of that business confidence in Rhode Island had improved
acquisition and more intensive use of existing facilities recently.
they used during the great recession, and a manufactur-
er of jet engines which continued to invest large amounts Residential Real Estate
in a new product line. Residential real estate markets in the First District contin- ued to struggle with a shortage of inventory. All six First
Several contacts expressed concerns about policy District states as well as the Greater Boston area report-
uncertainty. A manufacturer of test equipment which ed large declines in inventory for both single-family
exports a significant portion of its production worried homes and condos from February 2016 to February
about trade deals. Firms said that a Border Adjustment 2017. Closed sales also declined in every state and
Tax would have mixed effects but hoped for some reso- Boston for single-family homes. Results for condos were
lution. mixed, with closed sales increasing in New Hampshire
Software and Information Technology Services and Vermont but decreasing elsewhere. Respondents
Firms experienced revenue growth in the range of 1 ubiquitously reported strong buyer demand. A contact in
percent to 20 percent year-over-year, and even the Boston said: “Sales could have been much stronger had
1-percent-growth firm saw “incredible” new orders in the the inventory been up. Unfortunately, we’ve noticed that
first quarter. While health care and health services are potential sellers have become more reluctant to list their
generally strong in New England, multiple contacts indi- homes because they are apprehensive that they may not
cated that business sentiment turned positive lately, be able to find another home themselves.”
bolstering firms that serve more cyclical industries, such Given the robust demand and low inventory, contacts
as manufacturing and industrial IT. were not surprised that prices generally rose year-over-
All contacts were optimistic. One contact expressed year. For single family homes, median sales price rose in
concern that continued legislative struggles could put a each state except Connecticut. For condos, prices rose
damper on business confidence in the future, and anoth- in all reporting regions. A New Hampshire contact said
er noted that hostile immigration policy could further the low inventory situation and rising prices were
tighten labor markets for skilled and unskilled labor. “particularly hard on first-time buyers struggling to get into the market.” In general, contacts saw no remedy for
Commercial Real Estate ongoing declines in inventories. Most were confident,
Reports on commercial real estate activity in the First though, that buyer demand would stay strong, even in
District were mixed. Contacts in Boston and Hartford the face of increasing interest rates. ■
reported a modest softening of commercial leasing activ-
ity in recent weeks, while activity was reportedly stable in
Portland and somewhat stronger in Providence. In Con-
necticut the weaker activity extended to both the industri-
al and office sectors. In Boston reports of slower demand
pertained to the urban office sector, which still enjoyed a
single-digit vacancy rate. Investor demand for prime
Boston properties remained strong but price appreciation For more information about District economic conditions visit:
slowed further. www.bostonfed.org/regional-economy A-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of New York The Beige Book ■ April 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Economic activity in the Second District has expanded modestly since the last report, with labor markets remaining tight.
Input price pressures have remained fairly widespread, while selling prices have continued to rise modestly. Manufactur-
ers noted a deceleration in business activity, following brisk growth in the first two months of the year, while service-
sector contacts have generally continued to report steady to modesty expanding activity. Consumer spending has been
mixed in recent weeks, even as consumer confidence climbed to a multi-year high. Housing markets were mixed but, on
balance, somewhat stronger since the last report, although the high end has remained relatively weak. As for commer-
cial real estate, office markets were steady to somewhat slacker, while the industrial market continued to strengthen.
New construction activity has been sluggish—both on the commercial and residential side. Banks reported that loan
demand strengthened, while delinquency rates were mostly steady.
Employment and Wages Prices
The labor market has remained fairly tight. Contacts at Business contacts reported continued moderate growth
employment agencies continued to report tight job mar- in input costs but only modest increases in selling prices.
ket conditions and fairly brisk labor demand—particularly Manufacturers, retailers and businesses in the leisure &
for engineers and other tech workers. One New York hospitality industry anticipated moderate increases in
City agency characterized hiring as steady at a moderate selling prices in the months ahead, while those in other
level, while two others—one in the city and one up- industries said they expect to keep their prices fairly
state—noted a pickup in hiring. However, one noted a steady. Broadway theaters reported that ticket prices,
pullback in hiring in the health insurance industry. which had increased by more than the seasonal norm in the first two months of the year, have returned to more
Manufacturers indicated that they have ramped up hiring normal levels.
in recent weeks, and businesses in education & health
services reported that they have continued to add jobs, Consumer Spending
on net. Employment was reported to be steady to up Retailers reported that sales were steady to up moder-
slightly in other service industries. In contrast, contacts in ately. Retailers in upstate New York reported that sales
the leisure & hospitality industry reported declining em- picked up in March, after a flat February. A major retail
ployment. Looking ahead, however, businesses in all chain noted that same-store sales were down slightly
industries indicated that they expect employment to rise, from a year earlier in March but still somewhat ahead of
on balance. expectations. Sales in New York City were on par with
Contacts across all service industries reported moderate the region overall, with little adverse effect from the mid-
wage growth and expected this to continue in the months March snowstorm. Inventories were generally said to be
ahead. Employment agency contacts in New York City at desired levels. Retail contacts have grown somewhat
noted some pickup in wages for new job openings, while more optimistic about the near-term sales outlook.
a major agency in upstate New York indicated that wag- Auto dealers in upstate New York reported that sales of
es have held steady. new and used vehicles have continued to be strong in both February and March. Inventories of new vehicles have remained a bit high for certain makes and models, B-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of New York
but are generally at satisfactory levels. Retail and whole- slipping in Manhattan. Inventories have risen somewhat
sale credit conditions were reported to be in good shape, in Manhattan but remain low; properties have been
though one contact notes tightening for sub-prime loans. taking longer to sell, and bidding wars have become less common. In Long Island, Westchester and Fairfield
Consumer confidence in the Middle Atlantic states (NY, counties, home sales activity was increasingly robust,
NJ, PA) climbed again in March, reaching a 16-year while prices were steady to up only modestly. In upstate
high. New York, the market has continued to strengthen, with
Manufacturing and Distribution exceptionally low resale inventories boosting prices and
Manufacturers reported that growth in business activity bidding wars.
has receded from the brisk pace seen in early 2017. Commercial real estate markets were steady to some-
Businesses in the wholesale trade and transportation what slacker in the first quarter. Office availability rates
industries reported steady to moderately growing activity. rose modestly across downstate New York and northern
Businesses in manufacturing and wholesale trade re- New Jersey but were steady in upstate New York. Ask-
mained widely optimistic about the outlook, while those ing rents, on the other hand, edged down in upstate New
in transportation & warehousing have become less up- York but were steady to up slightly elsewhere. In New
beat. York City, office rents were flat but still up roughly 10
Services percent from a year earlier. In contrast, the market for
Business in most service industries reported little change industrial space has shown continued strength. Industrial
in general business activity since the last report, though vacancy rates continued to decline in northern New
contacts in education & health services reported steady, Jersey but leveled off elsewhere; however, asking rents
moderate growth. Looking ahead, businesses were continued to rise briskly and were up roughly 10 percent
generally optimistic about the outlook—particularly those from a year earlier across the District. The market for
in the information and professional & business services retail space has softened noticeably with vacancy rates
sectors. However, businesses in the leisure & hospitality rising and asking rents flat to down modestly.
industry were considerably less upbeat about the out- Finally, both residential and commercial construction
look. were generally sluggish—likely adversely affected by
Tourism has been mixed in New York City. Both hotels wintry weather in March.
and Broadway theaters have seen a bit of a pickup since Banking and Finance
the last report. However, the outlook for international Small to medium sized regional banks reported stronger
visitors has weakened noticeably: one industry expert demand across all loan categories—especially residen-
has observed an increase in cancellations (conferences, tial mortgages. However, banks also indicated that refi-
meetings, school trips, etc), a drop in airline ticketing and nancing activity decreased. Bankers reported that credit
a marked decrease in inquiries from abroad. At least standards were unchanged. Contacts noted wider
some of this slack is expected to be picked up by an spreads of loan rates over cost of funds across the
increase in domestic visitors. board, as well as an increase in the average deposit
Real Estate and Construction rate. Finally, bankers reported an increase in delinquen-
Housing markets across the District have been mixed cy rates for C&I loans, but no change in delinquencies
but, on balance a bit stronger since the last report, with across other loan categories. ■
ongoing slack at the high end of the market. New York
City’s rental market has been steady to somewhat weak-
er. Landlord concessions have grown more prevalent in
an effort to keep rents and vacancy rates steady. Effec-
tive rents (factoring in these concessions) have contin-
ued to decline—particularly on larger units and particu-
larly in Manhattan. Elsewhere, rents continued to rise in
northern New Jersey but were mostly flat across upstate
New York.
New York City’s co-op and condo resale market has For more information about District economic conditions visit:
improved somewhat. Sales volume increased, while www.newyorkfed.org/data-and-statistics/regional-data-
prices were mixed—rising in Brooklyn and Queens but center/index.html B-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia The Beige Book ■ April 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Aggregate business activity in the Third District continued at a modest pace during the current Beige Book reporting
period. Manufacturing, nonfinancial services, and homebuilding continued at a moderate pace of growth. Five sectors —
nonauto consumer spending, auto sales, lending, and nonresidential construction and leasing — were essentially flat,
similar to the prior period. Existing home sales grew slightly after declining last period. According to most contacts,
employment, wages, and prices continued to grow at a modest pace. Overall, firms continued to expect moderate
growth over the next six months.
Employment and Wages remaining firms, more reported increases than decreas-
Employment has continued at a modest pace of growth es with the exception of prices received by nonmanufac-
since the prior report. A higher percentage of manufac- turing firms, which decreased slightly, on net. Home-
turing firms reported increases in employment this period builders noted large increases in lumber and millwork
than during the prior period. Manufacturers also contin- costs and continued pressures for labor costs. Overall,
ued to note increases in the number of average hours the sales prices of existing homes rose slightly, although
worked. Employment indicators from nonmanufacturing this varied across markets and price categories.
firms also improved, as contacts reported overall in-
creases in full-time and part-time staff as well as work- Manufacturing Reports from manufacturers continued to suggest overall
week hours. moderate growth. Higher percentages of firms reported
On balance, wage pressures continued to be modest, increases in both new orders and shipments this period
although contacts reported tightening labor markets. A compared with the prior period.
majority of manufacturers reported labor shortages and
skills mismatches, but less than half indicated increasing Overall, gains in activity were indicated by most major
wages as a result. A Pennsylvania staffing firm contin- sectors, including the makers of lumber products, paper
ued to see strong demand for staffing services from products, chemicals, primary and fabricated metal prod-
companies across various sectors and noted a stronger ucts, industrial machinery, and electronic products.
pickup in wages than usual. Wage pressures remained Roughly two-thirds of the manufacturing contacts were
modest for nonmanufacturers, though a slightly lower optimistic that orders, shipments, and general activity
percentage of nonmanufacturing contacts reported wage would grow over the next six months, up slightly from the
increases this period than during the prior period. prior Beige Book period. Firms also expressed broader optimism for future employment and capital expendi-
Prices tures.
On balance, price levels continued to rise modestly.
More than two-thirds of firms’ contacts reported no
change at all in prices paid and prices received. Of the C-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia
Consumer Spending Financial Services
Nonauto retail sales were little changed on balance Third District financial firms have reported little change in
during the period, according to several analysts. One overall loan volumes excluding credit cards since the last
area chain reported a good month followed by a tough Beige Book, similar to the prior period. Commercial real
one that was largely impacted by the March snowstorm. estate loan volumes grew notably, and volumes of resi-
However, the contact has started to express slight con- dential mortgages grew slightly. Home equity loans
cern of a general slowdown in consumer spending be- posted modest decreases, and auto loans and commer-
yond the weather impacts, as sales continued to under- cial and industrial loans decreased slightly. Separately, a
perform expectations. A mall operator noted pronounced seasonal decline in credit card volumes that began in the
weakness for winter apparel and also reported mixed prior period continued in this period, with a rate of de-
sales over the Beige Book period — modestly up one cline similar to the change observed over the same
month then down the next — with only a few retailers period last year.
showing positive trends. Restaurant and food sales at Most contacts continued to report competitive loan pric-
malls were also down slightly. ing and no signs of inflation. In general, banking contacts
Auto dealers reported year-over-year sales were flat to continued to express cautious optimism for slow, steady
slightly down this period, after increasing slightly during growth.
the last Beige Book period. Pennsylvania dealers report-
ed fairly steady activity, slightly up but similar to last Real Estate and Construction
year. Sales in New Jersey declined relative to last year’s Homebuilders continued to report moderate increases in
levels. Although contacts in New Jersey expressed traffic, contract signings, and construction backlogs. A
uncertainty about keeping pace with the historic highs of South Jersey builder noted a continuation of the longest
the past two years, they expressed optimism that 2017 run of steady sales (since November) in over 10 years,
would still be a strong year. Dealers also continued to while a Pennsylvania builder started to see more first-
face high inventory and difficulty sustaining profitability time homebuyers compared with last year. Some con-
and margins. tacts wondered if recent interest rate increases helped get potential buyers off the fence.
Tourism contacts generally indicated a continuation of
modest growth. Philadelphia area hotels continued to Brokers in most major Third District housing markets
report strong demand. A contact in the Poconos reported reported a slight increase in existing home sales, follow-
that while February had been a weaker month because ing a modest decline last period. Contacts continued to
of the mild weather, the late-season snowstorm in March report low levels of inventory.
led to a significant pickup in snow-related activities and Nonresidential real estate contacts covering much of the
boosted overall first-quarter performance. A Delaware Third District continued to report little change overall to
contact noted that traffic counts and spending were up at the relatively high levels of construction and leasing
Delaware beaches. In Atlantic City, casino revenues activity. Contractors noted a slight seasonal lull in con-
flattened this period after posting year-over-year gains in struction activity, but they expect a pickup later in the
the prior period. year from large projects in the pipeline. ■
Nonfinancial Services
Third District service-sector firms continued to report
moderate growth in general activity, overall, although the
pace slowed somewhat from the prior period. Responses
suggested little change in the pace of new orders but a
slowing in the pace of sales. Expectations about future
growth, which had tempered during the prior Beige Book
period, changed little, and contacts remain optimistic. For more information about District economic conditions visit: philadelphiafed.org/research-and-data/regional-economy C-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland The Beige Book ■ April 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Economic activity grew moderately on balance across the Fourth District since our last report. Labor markets continued
to strengthen, with moderate to strong wage gains. Upward pressure on prices paid by producers increased; selling
prices rose, though at a slower pace. Consumer spending was stable; Internet and mobile transactions continued to
offset declines at brick and mortar establishments. New motor vehicle sales strengthened. The outlook by manufactur-
ers noticeably improved as factory output picked up. Nonfinancial services firms experienced moderate revenue growth
overall. Freight volume expanded over the period, especially for steel, coal, and consumer products. The housing mar-
ket cooled slightly, but unit sales remain above year-ago levels, and selling prices are higher. Commercial builders are
experiencing stronger than usual inquiries and growing backlogs. Lending pipelines were satisfactory.
Employment and Wages also cited pressures on capacity utilization in the materi-
District payrolls continued to expand at a steady, albeit als manufacturing industry. Oil and gas field materials
slow, pace. Increases were prevalent in the financial prices moved higher because of the expansion in up-
services, construction, and manufacturing industries. stream activity. The steepest increases were for steel
Brick-and-mortar retail was the only industry to report an and sand. Even though producer selling prices are rising,
overall staffing decline. Here, several contacts an- they have not kept pace with the upsurge in input costs.
nounced job cuts because of store downsizing or clo- A few contacts noted that productivity increases have
sures. Staffing firms noted that their clients expect that helped soften margin contraction. Manufacturers, home-
both the pace of hiring will pick up as the year progress- builders, and general building contractors experienced
es and the number of openings for permanent jobs will little pushback when attempting to raise their selling
rise. One staffing firm reported that billable hours for the prices. Concerns were raised about rising apparel and
first quarter were 20 percent higher compared to the motor vehicle prices if a border-adjustment tax were
historic average. Workforce development officials told us enacted.
that while the number of entry-level jobs is rising, finding Consumer Spending
candidates with the required core skills is difficult. Job Consumer spending remains stable. Growth in the num-
churning has become an issue confronting many hiring ber of transactions completed over the Internet or via
managers. Wage increases during 2017 are expected to mobile devices offset declines in brick-and-mortar trans-
average about 3 percent, with significantly higher in- actions. Traditional retailers reported that mall traffic
creases needed to retain high-skilled employees. continues to weaken and that there is less impulse buy-
Prices ing. One chain said that the apparel segment has been
Upward pressure on prices paid by producers increased on a downswing as consumers’ disposable income is
over the period. Manufacturers attributed increases to being allocated for other priorities. Another chain cited
the partial recovery in steel and other primary materials the unusually warm weather as a factor for the decline in
prices. A homebuilder said that his industry is feeling purchases of cold-weather merchandise. Retailers noted
pent-up pricing pressure from materials suppliers. He that they have little room to raise shelf prices. As a result D-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland
of these circumstances, brick-and-mortar retailers are housing and distribution facilities. Contractors noted that
cutting back on inventories and capital spending. Year-to demand for retail-related work has diminished signifi-
-date unit sales through February of new motor vehicles cantly. There is optimism about the impact that national
increased more than 5 percent when compared to those infrastructure legislation would have on the construction
of the year-earlier period. The share of light truck trans- industry. However, if an infrastructure bill were passed,
actions continues to trend higher. the impact would not be felt until 2018 at the earliest.
Industrial Production Financial Services
Manufacturing sentiment has noticeably improved during Bankers generally remain satisfied with their credit port-
the past couple of months, though a few large manufac- folios. Although customer confidence is higher, that
turers cautioned that the new found optimism may be confidence has not yet translated into additional com-
unwarranted. Reasons for the optimism include slowly mercial or retail lending. Bank customers seemingly are
improving global economic conditions, a partial recovery waiting for more definitive proposals on tax and regulato-
in commodity prices, and expectations for tax and regu- ry reform from the new administration before moving
latory reform on the part of the new administration. Activ- ahead with projects. On the commercial side, strongest
ity for suppliers to aerospace, automotive, construction, demand is for CRE loans and M&A financing. Two large-
and Internet-retailing end markets remains elevated. bank contacts reported that manufacturers are increas-
Factors tempering output growth include the strong ingly turning to non bank sources for capital project
dollar and trade policy uncertainty. Year-to-date produc- financing. Several bankers noted a seasonal decline in
tion through February at District auto assembly plants fell consumer lending overall, especially for credit cards. A
about 2 percent when compared to that of the same time drop in auto loans was attributed to increased competi-
period during 2016. Reports indicated that a growing tion from OEM captives and credit tightening for sub-
number of manufacturers are expanding capital budgets. prime applicants. A rise in interest rates and low existing-
Additional monies are being allocated primarily for new home inventory were cited as factors for a decline in
equipment and long-stalled maintenance projects. mortgage borrowing.
A small rise in oil and gas drilling is spurring additional Nonfinancial Services
investment in midstream and pipeline projects. Drillers Professional and business services firms reported mod-
are being motivated by a slow upward trend in wellhead erate levels of activity on balance over the period.
prices and a need to perform on their leases. With the Strongest demand was seen by bioscience, IT, logistics,
new presidential administration, oil and gas producers and management consulting firms. An IT executive re-
are hopeful for a less restrictive permitting process. ported that year-to-date results have been unusually positive so far. A management consultant said that his
Real Estate and Construction firm has recently seen a broad-based rise in demand.
Year-to-date unit sales through February of new and Factors contributing to increased demand are a stronger
existing single-family homes increased 1.6 percent com- economy and a need for assistance in navigating emerg-
pared to those of a year earlier. The average sales price ing uncertainties such as changes in health-care laws.
rose more than 6 percent. Homebuilders reported that
rising interest rates and rising list prices are motivating Freight volume expanded over the period on balance,
potential buyers to move off the fence. The impact of and this expansion was attributed to improving economic
these factors on demand for new home construction may conditions and lean inventories. Increases were seen
not be known for months owing to the significant time primarily in shipments of steel, coal, and lower-value
lags in the new home buying process. Year-to-date consumer products. A few carriers reported that they
estimates of single family construction starts were much were able to push through rate increases. ■
higher in Ohio compared to a year earlier. Strongest
demand was found in the first-time and move-up price
point categories. Sales of high-end homes continued to
slow.
Nonresidential contractors reported rising optimism
across their markets. The number of inquiries was de-
scribed as strong for early on in the year, and backlogs
are strengthening. Strongest demand was for public
infrastructure projects, commercial buildings, and ware- D-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond The Beige Book ■ April 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
The Fifth District economy expanded at a slightly faster, albeit still modest, pace than during the previous Beige Book
reporting period. Manufacturing activity increased amidst reports of stronger shipments and new orders, but tighter
margins reportedly cut into capital spending plans. Port volumes remained very robust and increased modestly further
despite some weather disruptions, while reports on other freight were mixed. Retail sales rose at a modest pace while
tourism activity was boosted by the early arrival of warm weather. Realtors reported an increase in the number of new
residential listings, but quick sales left inventories unchanged at lower-than-desired levels. Nonresidential leasing activi-
ty advanced modestly while commercial construction was mostly steady. Financial services activity strengthened mod-
estly while nonfinancial services revenues rose slightly. Reports on natural resources were mixed. Labor demand
remained firm and reports of modest wage increases broadened. Price increases were up modestly, on balance.
Employment and Wages slight decrease noted for Northern Appalachian coal.
Labor demand strengthened moderately in recent Manufacturing
weeks, and wage gains were more widespread. Con- Manufacturing activity increased as more firms reported
tacts generally suggested that wage increases remained higher new orders and shipments. Manufacturers of
modest, although some firms noted sharper increases electrical equipment, semiconductors, computer prod-
for high-skill workers who are in short supply. Employ- ucts, autos, and fabricated steel noted stronger business
ment agencies reported an increase in the number of conditions in recent weeks. Expectations for the next six
employed workers seeking different jobs, higher turnover months were positive, and small domestic manufacturers
rates, and more wage pressures. A Virginia recruiter said were particularly optimistic. Despite that optimism, con-
that he was encouraging clients to increase pay rates tacts suggested that persistent labor shortages had
and make quicker hiring decisions when they find the pushed labor costs up beyond what could be recovered
right worker. Persistent shortages of skilled construction through price increases, with the resulting squeeze on
workers adversely affected a larger number of builders, margins leading to cutbacks in planned capital spending.
and led one South Carolinian to get out of the business
after 25 years in it. Ports and Transportation Shipments through District ports were robust, on bal-
Prices ance, and increased at a modest pace despite some
Recent reports indicated a modest rise in prices. Manu- disruptions resulting from adverse weather events. More-
facturers’ input prices increased moderately and slightly over, one official suggested that the typical January/
outpaced finished goods price growth, according to our February slowdown did not occur this year as activity
most recent surveys. Specifically, prices rose for corru- remained elevated after the peak holiday season. Strong
gated metal, plastic, and lumber. Meanwhile, services import volumes persisted, and a few contacts noted that
prices continued to edge up while retail prices grew exports had picked up. One executive said that machin-
robustly. House prices rose marginally on average; ery exports increased recently following a considerable
however, some contacts reported stronger price growth period of weakness.
in areas with low inventories and a scarcity of buildable
lots. Crop prices varied, with increases noted for peanuts Reports on truck transportation were mixed. One person,
and cotton while dairy and grain prices trended slightly whose company delivers directly to end users, reported
lower. Energy prices were stable, on balance, with a E-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
a slight acceleration in first quarter shipments from lending demand softened somewhat. A South Carolina
healthy fourth quarter levels. In contrast, a nationwide lender noted particular strength in mortgage demand
freight hauler described shipments as “ho-hum” and coming from new homes. Commercial real estate loan
noted that recent improvements in manufacturing indica- demand generally strengthened, but varied throughout
tors were not yet translating into increased truck freight. the District. Non-mortgage business lending rose mar- ginally while auto lending remained fairly robust. Deposit
Retail, Travel, and Tourism growth was mostly stable, but one lender in West Virgin-
Retail sales continued to expand at a modest pace since ia noted a slight decline. Interest rates were unchanged
the last report. Hardware and gardening stores saw on balance; however, one lender said that pressure to
brisker sales as homeowners took advantage of mild raise loan rates was building. Credit quality was general-
temperatures. A sporting goods store manager reported ly cited to be good and improving slightly. Similarly,
stagnant sales though he was optimistic about sales in credit standards remained constant even as competition
the coming weeks. A furniture retailer said that custom- among banks remained high.
ers are building, renovating, and moving again, which
contributed to an increased pace of sales in the first Non-Financial Services
quarter. A large auto dealer reported sales trending up in Our most recent survey suggested that services firms
March for both new and used cars. saw a slight increase in revenues. In general, services related to home building, remodeling, and landscaping
Tourist activity picked up beyond normal seasonal trends reported the most robust activity. Accounting services
due to unusually warm weather. In the Outer Banks, firms also noted stronger demand as the income tax
spending on home furnishings and restaurants increased filing season was well underway. Meanwhile, a market-
as vacation home owners returned to under-take remod- ing firm indicated that increased business to new clients
eling projects. In western North Carolina, hotels saw more than offset a slight decline in demand from some
strong corporate bookings and leisure activity at normal existing clients. A legal services contact in West Virginia
levels. Convention and tourist activity was at seasonal said that business was picking up, particularly from
levels in the nation’s capital. clients in the construction, health care, manufacturing,
Real Estate and Construction and mining industries.
Residential real estate sales increased moderately since
the previous report. Realtors reported increased buyer Agriculture and Natural Resources Energy reports varied in recent weeks. Coal production
traffic driven by the early spring weather. Inventories was flat to marginally lower as prices were slightly down.
remained low; however most realtors contacted said that At the same time, natural gas production rose slightly
more homes came on the market, but those homes sold and the number of active rigs increased. Agriculture
quickly resulting in unchanged inventory levels. Residen- conditions were also mixed. Poultry and farming opera-
tial builders reported that home starts and closings were tions picked up in Virginia and West Virginia. In South
moderate and had increased somewhat. Carolina, planting season was underway, having been
On balance, commercial real estate leasing rose moder- somewhat delayed by cold weather. Also, a late winter
ately. Industrial and retail leasing and sales activity freeze significantly damaged the state’s peach crop.
remained very active throughout the District. Rental rates Investment in new farm equipment slowed slightly. ■
varied across sub-market and property types, although
most contacts reported rent increases in the tighter retail
and office markets. Brokers noted an increase in tenant
improvement allowances, while free rent incentives
diminished. Commercial construction generally remained
steady at modest levels, and multifamily construction
continued at moderate levels. A broker in Charlotte,
North Carolina reported an increase in Class A office
space with new construction hitting the market.
Banking and Finance
In general, financial services activity strengthened mod-
erately in recent weeks. Residential mortgage demand
picked up slightly in the District, with the majority of new For more information about District economic conditions visit:
activity coming from the purchase side as refinance www.richmondfed.org/research/regional_economy E-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta The Beige Book ■ April 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Sixth District business contacts indicated that economic conditions improved modestly from the previous report. The
majority of contacts remain optimistic in their outlook for growth over the next three to six months. The labor market
remained tight and wage growth remained stable. Firms characterized non-labor input costs as steady. Retail sales
softened since the previous report while automotive dealers remarked that sales of light trucks and large vehicles had
improved. Hospitality contacts noted solid domestic activity. Residential real estate builders and brokers indicated that
home sales were flat to slightly up. New home construction increased since the previous report. Demand for commercial
real estate continued to improve and construction increased from the year-ago level across most of the District. Manu-
facturers cited solid increases in new orders and production. Drought and cold weather caused agricultural conditions to
weaken.
Employment and Wages Prices
Firms continued to struggle to find, hire, and hold onto Non-labor input costs were stable and businesses re-
quality workers, particularly in skilled technical jobs, but ported pricing power was still constrained. According to
also in sales, finance, information technology, and com- the Atlanta Fed’s Business Inflation Expectations survey,
pliance positions. Clerical and other entry-level jobs were year-over-year unit costs were up 1.7 percent in March.
also reported as increasingly difficult to fill. Leisure and Survey respondents indicated that they expect unit costs
hospitality contacts shared that they are exploring auto- to rise 2.1 percent over the next twelve months.
mation options for housekeeping and food preparation
services. Partnerships expanded with workforce devel- Consumer Spending and Tourism
opment organizations and educational institutions to Most District retail contacts reported that sales levels
develop custom training programs as a means to build were softer since the last report. They reported that the
larger pipelines of talent. Additionally, firms continued to delay in federal income tax refunds weighed down retail
increase investment in internal training programs in order spending in February. However, merchants expect a
to develop otherwise unqualified workers. In spite of boost to sales in March following tax disbursements at
these efforts, a number of contacts continued to express the end of February. Auto dealers noted sales of light
that the inability to find labor was restraining growth. trucks and large vehicles increased in February com-
Manufacturing, construction, and professional services pared to a year ago.
firms reported strong additions to employee headcount On balance, reports from tourism and hospitality con-
levels. Reports of turnover increased since the previous tacts across the District were cautiously optimistic. Con-
report, particularly for entry level positions. Businesses tacts in Georgia, Louisiana, and Tennessee reported
continued to actively ramp up efforts to reduce turnover strong tourism activity since the last report; while some
by offering bonuses, increasing flexible time policies, areas of Florida reported a slight decrease in the number
absorbing more healthcare costs, and offering other of international visitors during the same time period. With
benefits. the exception of South Florida, hotel occupancy and
Wage growth remained in the 2 to 3 percent range for revenue per available room were up year-over-year. The
most job categories, with the exception of stronger wage outlook among most contacts for the second quarter of
pressures for specialized positions in high demand. the year remains upbeat. F-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
Construction and Real Estate tainerized and break bulk cargo. A majority of contacts
Reports from residential real estate contacts in the Dis- anticipate activity to remain the same over the next three
trict continued to point to slow but steady growth in Feb- to six months.
ruary. Most builders noted that construction activity was Banking and Finance
up from the year-ago level. Builders and brokers indicat- Credit remained readily available for most qualified bor-
ed that home sales were flat to slightly up relative to one rowers, although some small businesses continued to
year earlier. The majority of builder and broker contacts experience difficulty obtaining credit. For larger busi-
noted that buyer traffic was equal to or higher than the nesses, private equity sources remained a competitive
previous year’s level. Residential contacts reported that alternative to bank financing. Regulatory capital require-
inventory levels were similar to or down relative to the ments constrained commercial and construction lending
year-ago level. Builders and brokers noted modest gains at some banks. Some bank contacts reported increased
in home prices. Home sales expectations improved in pricing pressure on deposits.
February, with most brokers and builders anticipating
sales to increase slightly over the next three months Energy
relative to the year-earlier level. Most builders expect Reports from energy contacts noted that crude oil inven-
construction activity to hold steady at the current pace or tories remained at historically high levels due to weak
increase slightly over the next three months. demand, oversupply, and continued production. Utility
Most commercial real estate contacts noted improve- industry contacts noted continued investments in renew-
ments in demand that continued to result in rent growth able energy. Contacts cited robust construction on gas
and increased absorption, but cautioned that the rate of liquefaction plants in southwest Louisiana, however,
improvement varies by metropolitan area, submarket, skilled labor shortages were also noted. Operational
and property type. Many commercial contractors indicat- liquefied natural gas plants experienced steady export
ed that the pace of nonresidential construction activity activity.
had increased from one year ago, with many reporting Agriculture
backlogs greater than one year. Reports from District Agriculture conditions across the District softened. By
contacts on the pace of multifamily construction contin- late-March, drought conditions expanded in the District
ued to be mixed, with roughly half indicating that the with drought ratings ranging from dry to extreme. During
pace increased from the year-earlier level and the rest the same time period, parts of the District also experi-
suggesting that the pace leveled off or slowed. Looking enced a cold snap that damaged some fruit and vegeta-
forward, the majority of District commercial real estate ble crops. There were limited reports of poultry that
contacts expect the pace of nonresidential and multifami- tested positive for avian flu in Alabama, Georgia, and
ly construction activity to increase slightly over the next Tennessee with stop movement orders, surveillance,
quarter. quarantine, and depopulation employed as containment
Manufacturing methods. The March forecast for Florida oranges was
District manufacturing contacts reported a solid increase down from February and last season. Some citrus con-
in overall business activity compared to the previous tacts indicated that they are looking for alternative crops
report. New orders and production levels rose notably in light of the chronic problems caused by citrus green-
and finished inventory levels were higher. Purchasing ing. Contacts continued to report farm consolidations. On
managers also indicated that supply delivery times were a year-over-year basis, prices paid to farmers in January
longer. The outlook for future production continued to be were up for cotton and soybeans, but down for corn, rice,
optimistic, as nearly two-thirds of firms expect higher beef, broilers and eggs. ■
production levels over the next six months.
Transportation
District transportation contacts continued to report vary-
ing levels of activity since the previous report. Railroad
contacts cited a slight uptick in total rail traffic, as large
increases in shipments of crushed stone, sand and
gravel, waste and nonferrous scrap metal, were mostly
offset by declines in petroleum and petroleum products,
and metallic ore loads. Ports cited robust growth in cargo For more information about District economic conditions visit:
overall, led by significant increases in tonnage of con- www.frbatlanta.org/economy-matters/regional-economics F-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago The Beige Book ■ April 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Growth in economic activity in the Seventh District continued at a moderate pace in late February and March, and con-
tacts expected activity to continue rising at a moderate pace over the next six to twelve months. Employment, wages,
and manufacturing production grew at moderate rates, while prices, business spending, and construction and real es-
tate activity increased modestly. Consumer spending was flat, financial conditions were little changed, and lower crop
prices put further stress on the agricultural sector.
Employment and Wages Consumer Spending
Employment growth continued at a moderate rate over Consumer spending was flat in late February and March,
the reporting period, and contacts expected it to continue though contacts expected the pace of sales to pick up in
to rise at a moderate rate over the next six to twelve the second quarter of 2017. Contacts noted that above-
months. The labor market remained tight. Contacts average temperatures benefitted sales of home improve-
indicated that they were experiencing increased difficulty ment items and building materials at the expense of their
filling low-skilled positions, though higher-skilled workers seasonal businesses. E-commerce activity continued to
were still in highest demand. Some contacts reported a grow strongly. Our District contacts reported a slightly
greater willingness to accept less-qualified applicants. higher sales pace of new light vehicles despite less
Staffing firms again reported little change in billable generous incentives, with the sales mix continuing to
hours and ongoing difficulty filling orders at the wages shift toward light trucks. Used vehicle sales also in-
employers were willing to pay. One staffing firm indicated creased.
that they were no longer taking orders from clients in any
industry offering wages of less than $11 per hour. Wage Business Spending
growth continued at a moderate pace. High-skilled occu- Growth in business spending slowed to a modest pace in
pations were more likely to be given wage increases, late February and March. Most retailers indicated that
though there were more reports of increases for produc- inventories were at comfortable levels, though light vehi-
tion workers as well. A number of contacts reported a cle inventories were slightly high. Manufacturing invento-
rise in healthcare costs. ries were also at desired levels overall, with the excep- tion of stocks at steel service centers, which continued to
Prices be low. Growth in capital expenditures slowed to a mod-
Prices again rose modestly overall in late February and est pace, but contacts expected moderate growth over
March. Retail prices increased slightly, though one con- the next six to twelve months. Outlays were primarily for
tact noted that higher freight costs have not yet been replacing industrial and IT equipment, though there was
passed on to consumers. Metals prices were little an increase in the number of firms reporting spending on
changed overall. structures. G-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago
Construction and Real Estate Agriculture
Construction and real estate activity increased modestly Lower crop prices put further stress on the agricultural
over the reporting period. Residential construction rose sector. Prices of corn, soybean, and wheat all fell during
moderately in recent weeks, and homebuilders also the reporting period. With profit margins looking to be
noted that inquiries were up compared with this time last higher for soybeans than for corn, demand for soybean
year. Activity was the strongest in the single-family seg- seeds was high. Recent rains delayed the start of corn
ment. Home sales increased slightly overall. Demand planting in portions of the District. Additional delays
varied by price range, with strong increases for homes could hurt yields, and, because soybeans are planted
under $250,000, modest gains in the $250,000 to later in the season, could further shift the crop mix to-
$500,000 price range, and a modest decline in demand ward soybeans. Expectations of low incomes for 2017
for homes over $500,000. Demand for nonresidential led to lower farmland values and cash rents for cropland
construction increased slightly, with growth concentrated compared with last year. However, land values for higher
in the retail, industrial, and office sectors. The pace of quality ground and recreational tracts were steady on
commercial real estate activity increased only a little balance. Milk and hog prices were lower, while egg and
overall, and the gains were limited to the for-lease seg- cattle prices moved up. Expectations of falling milk pric-
ment. That said, a number of contacts reported signs of es and rising feed costs led more dairy operations to lock
slowing activity, particularly in the retail segment. Com- in margins. ■
mercial rents, availability of sublease space, and com-
mercial vacancy rates were little changed.
Manufacturing
Manufacturing production again grew at a moderate
pace in late February and March. Growth was wide-
spread and conditions in some long-struggling sectors
improved again. Demand for steel increased to a moder-
ate pace and was stronger than expected. Growth was
led by demand from the energy sector and steel service
centers, which were in the process of replenishing low
inventories. Specialty metals manufacturers also report-
ed higher sales to the energy sector, though contacts
noted that efficiency gains in the sector over the last
couple of years have resulted in a notable decline in
sales volume per barrel of oil produced. Demand for
heavy trucks increased moderately. Manufacturers of
construction materials continued to report slow increases
in shipments, in line with the modest pace of improve-
ment in construction. Activity in the auto and aerospace
sectors was unchanged, but remained at high levels.
Banking and Finance
Financial conditions were little changed on balance over
the reporting period. Market participants reported that
equity prices are high and that volatility remains low.
Business loan demand increased slightly, with growth
concentrated in the small business segment. Loan
standards were about the same and asset quality re-
mained high. Consumer loan demand increased slightly.
Auto loan demand picked up some, but quality deterio-
rated slightly. Contacts also reported an increase in
credit card spending and that the pace of residential
mortgage originations was unchanged. For more information about District economic conditions visit: www.chicagofed.org/cfsbc G-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis The Beige Book ■ April 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Reports from contacts suggest that economic activity in the District has continued to increase at a modest pace since
our previous report. Overall employment growth was modest, while wage growth remains moderate. Overall inflationary
pressures remained modest. Reports on consumer spending suggest moderate growth since our previous report, with a
moderate uptick in auto sales toward the end of the first quarter. Real estate activity was little changed, while District
banks reported moderate growth in loan demand. Overall activity in agriculture and natural resources remains weak
because of low commodity prices; however, conditions remain generally unchanged since the previous report.
Employment and Wages coal and rice have remained about the same, while
Anecdotal evidence suggests modest employment prices for corn, soybeans, sorghum, and wheat have
growth since the previous report. Several industries declined slightly.
continue to report shortages of available workers. Con- Across the District, home prices continued to increase
struction contacts in Memphis and Little Rock reported moderately, with contacts in all areas reporting low in-
shortages of workers, and manufacturing contacts re- ventory. Contacts in Memphis and Louisville reported
ported difficulties in hiring and retaining experienced rents were modestly higher for Class A commercial
employees. Contacts in transportation and manufactur- properties, particularly in some major markets. Price
ing reported that growth has been restrained because of pressures from construction materials were mixed. Con-
difficulties hiring experienced workers. tacts in Little Rock reported solid wood prices increased
Contacts reported moderate wage growth since the modestly, while prices for pine saw timber, chips, and
previous report. A manufacturing contact in Louisville pulpwood remained flat or decreased slightly since the
noted upward pressure on wages in the region, with mild winter allowed for an increase in supply.
employers expecting to moderately increase wages. Consumer Spending
Anecdotal evidence suggests that tightness in the labor Reports from general retailers, auto dealers, and hotel-
market has resulted in some employers increasing wag- iers indicate consumer spending growth has been mod-
es to attract employees. erate since our previous report. Retail sales growth was
Prices particularly strong in the Memphis area; accordingly, the
Price pressures in the District remained modest. Busi- majority of households in west Tennessee continue to
ness contacts did not report changes in overall prices hold an optimistic outlook for their financial situation for
charged to customers. Low commodity prices continue to 2017. Furthermore, the northwest Arkansas region re-
put pressure on sectors dependent on the agricultural ported record sales tax revenue figures for March. Hos-
sector. The most-expensive used farm equipment is pitality contacts in St. Louis and Louisville reported a
selling at deep discounts at auctions, while equipment modest to moderate decline in occupancy rates. Reports
prices have remained stable or increased slightly for the from auto dealers indicate that sales picked up after a
less-expensive equipment. Contacts in Memphis and relatively slow January. Furthermore, multiple dealers in
Little Rock reported feed prices have declined, given the the Memphis area noted a shift in demand toward used
lower price of corn. Since the previous report, prices for vehicles. H-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
Manufacturing strong construction activity or an increase in the number
Manufacturing activity has increased modestly since our of projects undertaken. Contacts expect this trend to
previous report. Manufacturing activity in March was continue through the year. New projects for various
stronger than one month earlier in both Arkansas and property types were announced or broke ground, includ-
Missouri, although the pace of increase slowed slightly in ing several new hotels, multifamily structures, specula-
Missouri. Many companies reported capital expenditure tive industrial parks, and mixed-use projects.
and facility expansion plans in the District, including firms Banking and Finance
that manufacture medical devices, clothing, and chemi- Banking and credit conditions in the District have
cal products. However, a number of firms announced strengthened at a moderate rate since the previous
plans to close facilities, including manufacturers of ma- report, with some signs of accelerating growth in lending.
chinery, food products, and primary metals. Real estate loan volumes increased at a moderate pace
Nonfinancial Services over the period with the rate of growth continuing to tick
Reports of plans in the District’s service sector have upward. However, contacts report that high volume
been mixed since the previous report. In particular, sev- lenders are shrinking market areas for multifamily prop-
eral firms that provide transportation, warehousing, and erties due to softening demand. Meanwhile, commercial
information services reported plans to build new facilities and industrial lending among District banks rose at a
or expand employment. Two trucking contacts reported moderate to robust rate and markedly outpaced the
business is good enough to justify new equipment and nation in terms of growth. Loans to individuals and
increased hiring. Reports from the professional business households continue to expand at a robust rate and
services sector were mixed. Some existing employers continue to account for an increasingly larger share of
laid off workers but new companies opening in the Dis- outstanding loan portfolios.
trict were hiring and building facilities. Reports from the Agriculture and Natural Resources
healthcare sector were mostly negative; layoffs were Agricultural conditions were unchanged from the previ-
announced in Louisville and Memphis; however, ous report and the same time last year. In March, farm-
healthcare facility expansions were announced in Little ers planned to plant about 20 percent more cotton than
Rock. last year, but 20 percent less rice. These movements
Real Estate and Construction correspond to a continued increase in cotton fiber prices
Residential real estate activity has decreased slightly and a continued decline in rice prices. With corn and
since our previous report. Home sales declined in most soybean prices remaining low, farmers planned to re-
major metro areas. Local contacts continued to report a duce corn acreage by 5 percent and increase soybean
shortage of inventory relative to strong current demand. acreage by roughly the same percentage. This planned
Concerns about rising mortgage rates were mixed, as switch in the District’s two largest crops was largely
some contacts indicated that higher rates have had no driven by the fact that soybeans, with much lower per-
significant effect on the market. acre costs, require much smaller operating loans.
Residential construction activity has improved modestly Natural resource extraction conditions improved modest-
since the previous report. February construction starts ly from the previous report. District seasonally adjusted
were generally flat while permit activity increased moder- coal production grew 4 percent from January to February
ately. Some local builders reported that speculative and was 10 percent higher than one year ago. ■
homes were selling before completion, indicating that
construction has continued to lag behind demand.
Commercial real estate activity has been flat since the
previous report. Local contacts indicated that demand
has remained steady for most property types. Contacts
noted some concerns that St. Louis office vacancy rates
will rise in the near future due to new construction com-
bined with expiring leases of vacant properties.
Commercial construction activity was mixed. Non-
residential construction started to dip in February.
However, recent reports from local contacts were gener- For more information about District economic conditions, visit:
ally positive, with most seeing either a continuation of www.research.stlouisfed.org/regecon/ H-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis The Beige Book ■ April 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
The Ninth District economy grew modestly overall since the last report. Employment grew moderately, wage pressures
picked up, and price pressures were modest overall. Activity increased in construction, manufacturing, energy, and
mining, while commercial real estate activity was flat at strong levels. Tourism activity was mixed, while consumer
spending and residential real estate were down, and agriculture remained weak.
Employment and Wages that wages have increased by more than 3 percent from
Employment grew moderately since the last report, a year ago; reports from staffing firms in Montana and
checked by tight labor conditions. From February to mid- Wisconsin suggested even larger increases. A contact at
March, initial unemployment claims were 14 percent a South Dakota human resources firm said more
lower relative to a comparable period a year earlier, companies were asking for competitive wage analysis
dropping in every state except South Dakota. Continuing and, as a result, compensation increases were “above
claims were also lower overall. A Minnesota staffing firm normal.” A manufacturing consultant said clients were
contact said job orders for seasonal workers in predicting “more aggressive” wage increases than in
landscape and construction started rising due to the past years. While wages in the Bakken oil region
relatively warmer weather. Firms catering to tourists in remained below their peak, housing allowances and
the Black Hills region reported difficulty finding labor, daily stipends have come back after being eliminated
especially seasonal immigrant labor they have during the oil downturn, according to a source there.
traditionally used. A Montana source said many firms are Prices
hiring, “but there’s not enough workforce for all of the Price pressures were modest overall since the last
openings.” The oil-producing region of North Dakota saw report. A survey of commercial contractors indicated
an increase in hiring, according to a state contact. acceleration in the price of building materials. A contact
Employer booths at recent job fairs there were sold out at an electric utility reported that a proliferation of wind
and had double the job openings of the previous year, energy developments put downward pressure on electric
including one company looking to hire 200 to 300 rates. Most prices received by farmers decreased in
certified drivers. There were some notable job losses, February from a year earlier, with the exception of
including 55 at a Minnesota construction firm and 100 at soybeans, milk, chickens, and hogs.
a South Dakota senior care organization, along with
those affected by numerous retail closures across the Consumer Spending
District. But overall, said one source, “the good news Consumer spending was down modestly since the last
certainly seems to be outweighing the bad news right report. A national department store chain closed 20
now.” A survey of employers in District states found that stores across states in the Ninth District. In Grand Forks,
their second-quarter hiring outlook was solidly positive N.D., alone, three mall-based department stores
and more optimistic than a similar, first-quarter survey. closed—in one case, the closure was due to bankruptcy.
Wage pressures were moderate to strong since the last These and other retail store closures, referred to as a
report. A staffing firm in Minneapolis-St. Paul reported “mall quake” by one industry expert in Minnesota, I-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis
reflected the larger national trend of sales gravitating recent years, office and industrial vacancy rates in Sioux
away from brick-and-mortar stores to online sales. A Falls, S.D., remained low, while apartment vacancies
national food distributor based in Minneapolis-St. Paul have risen thanks to an influx of new units. Residential
saw a 5 percent decline in sales in the most recent real estate was lower overall. Some Montana regions
quarter, and the third straight quarterly decline. In saw growth in home sales, but sales elsewhere in the
contrast, craft breweries in Montana saw record revenue District were lower, the result of low inventories,
increases in sales since the last report and were according to numerous sources, which were leading to
characterized as an “economic engine” for the state. quicker sales and higher prices. In Rapid City, S.D., said
Several new grocery stores opened in Minneapolis-St. one source, sellers “can expect to get full market value.”
Paul as a new national chain has moved into vacant
retail locations. Services Professional services activity was up modestly.
Tourism Information technology and software firms in Sioux Falls
Tourism conditions were mixed since the previous report indicated continued growth in sales since the last report.
due to the range of weather conditions across the Accounting firms across the Ninth District reported a
District. Bountiful snowfalls in the mountains of Montana normal, seasonal uptick in activity given the tax season.
extended the ski season for most resorts. However, Several law firms in the Minneapolis-St. Paul region
states bordering the Great Lakes experienced experienced modest growth since the last report, and
unseasonably warm weather in February and early one law firm is appealing to startup companies by
March, shortening the winter tourism season by a month. providing cut-rate legal advice to compete with online
Small-town ice festivals and Nordic ski races in many legal tools. A public relations firm in Minnesota reported
northern state communities lost weeks of anticipated “steady work,” as did an architectural firm in Fargo, N.D.
revenues. Hotel occupancy rates in Wisconsin have
slowed since the last report, according to state officials, Manufacturing
while in Minnesota, lodging revenue exceeded 6 percent District manufacturing activity increased moderately
annual growth for the fourth consecutive year. since the last report. An index of manufacturing conditions produced by Creighton University indicated
Construction and Real Estate increased activity in March compared with a month
Construction activity was up modestly since the last earlier in Minnesota and the Dakotas. A medical device
report. New construction projects out for bid over the maker announced an expansion at a Minnesota facility.
most recent six-week period (through late-March) A Michigan firm noted that recent orders were “almost
increased more than 10 percent over a similar period a double” expectations. Several contacts across the
year earlier, according to an industry tracker. A second District reported increased capital expenditures by
industry database showed strong January-February manufacturers.
growth in heavy and other nonbuilding construction
sectors. “We’re anticipating quite a bit of business this Agriculture, Energy, and Natural Resources
year,” said a construction material supplier in South District agricultural conditions remained weak since the
Dakota. However, commercial construction permitting previous report. Most of the District remained drought-
was lower in most District metros compared with the free heading into planting season. Activity in the energy
same period a year earlier. Residential construction was and mining sectors increased modestly since the last
mixed. Many metros have seen fewer units permitted in report. District oil and gas drilling as of late March
the first quarter compared with a year earlier, but increased from low levels a month earlier. Some
Minneapolis-St. Paul saw a strong increase in both contacts in the oil-producing region of the District
single- and multifamily units. expected an increase in activity in April. A copper mine and a gold mine were slated for opening later this year in
Commercial real estate was flat, but remained solid by Michigan’s Upper Peninsula. ■
most measures. Office vacancy rates in Minneapolis-St.
Paul have ticked higher after significant new office
development. There were reports of more preleasing
before new projects move into the construction phase.
A Minneapolis-St. Paul source noted that retail
vacancies had crept up to 6 percent, but that “is still
considered very low. Prime retail areas are very tight and
have high rents.” Despite significant new construction in I-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City The Beige Book ■ April 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Economic activity in the Tenth District increased moderately in late February and March, and most sectors expected
continued growth in future months. Manufacturing activity expanded at a strong pace, and real estate firms reported a
modest rise in sales. Consumer spending activity rose at a modest pace, and District energy activity continued to in-
crease moderately. Professional and high-tech firms reported moderate sales increases, and bankers reported steady-
to-increased loan demand, stable deposit levels, and unchanged loan quality. Transportation activity declined modestly
from the previous survey period, and agricultural credit conditions remained weak, with subdued farm income and con-
tinued low commodity prices. Employment and employee hours increased modestly, and wages rose modestly. In most
sectors, input and selling prices were up slightly over the previous survey period.
Employment and Wages reported modestly higher prices for both input and selling
Employment and employee hours increased modestly in prices. Transportation input prices were up slightly, while
late February and March, and expectations were for a selling prices increased modestly after falling in the prior
continued increase in the months ahead. Contacts in the survey period. Prices in the construction sector rose
manufacturing, energy, retail trade, wholesale trade, moderately, with additional moderate increases expected
professional and high-tech services, education, health moving forward. Manufacturers reported slight growth in
services, and tourism and hotels sectors reported an finished goods prices, while raw material costs continued
increase in employment levels since the previous survey to edge higher. Manufacturers expected a slight increase
period, while contacts in the auto, transportation, and in both finished goods and raw material prices over the
restaurant sectors noted a decline. All respondents next few months.
expected a rise in employment in the coming months. Consumer Spending
Average employee hours rose modestly in the manufac- Consumer spending activity rose modestly in late Febru-
turing, energy, and service sectors, and additional gains ary and March, while expectations for future growth
were expected moving forward. Respondents noted a expanded markedly. Retail sales increased over the
shortage of commercial drivers, skilled technicians, and previous survey period, and remained modestly above
service workers. year-ago levels. Several retailers noted an increase in
Contacts in most sectors reported modest wage growth, sales for outdoor and sale items, while luxury products
and expectations in the coming months were for moder- sold poorly. Contacts anticipated sales to rise rapidly in
ate wage growth. the next few months, and inventory levels were expected to increase. Auto sales continued to fall at a moderate
Prices pace, and remained below year-ago levels. However,
In most sectors, input and selling prices were up slightly dealer contacts anticipated a strong pickup in sales for
compared to the previous survey period. In the retail the months ahead. Auto inventories fell slightly but were
sector, input prices rose moderately and selling prices expected to remain stable in coming months. Restaurant
edged higher. Both input and selling prices were ex- sales edged down modestly and were well below year-
pected to grow moderately in the coming months in the ago levels. Contacts expected activity to pick up slightly
retail sector. Respondents in the restaurant industry heading forward. District tourism activity increased mark- J-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City
edly in late February and March and was well above year ago. In addition, most respondents expected loan
year-ago levels. Tourism contacts expected strong activi- quality to remain essentially the same over the next six
ty heading into the spring months. months. Credit standards remained largely unchanged in most major loan categories, though almost a third of
Manufacturing and Other Business Activity banks indicated lending standards tightened for agricul-
Manufacturing activity expanded at a strong pace, and tural loans. Finally, a majority of respondents reported
most other business contacts reported increased sales. stable deposit levels.
Manufacturers reported a rapid expansion in production,
particularly for metals, electronics, and aircraft products. Energy
Shipments, new orders, and order backlog all increased District energy activity continued to expand moderately,
over the previous survey, and activity was modestly while expectations eased somewhat but remained solid.
higher than a year ago. Manufacturers’ capital spending The number of active oil and gas drilling rigs grew mod-
plans expanded moderately, and firms’ expectations for erately, mainly in Oklahoma and New Mexico. Contacts
future activity were at their highest levels in over twenty reported slight increases in oilfield service costs for
years. completions since last year, and some expected further increases through the summer. Most respondents ex-
Outside of manufacturing, professional, high-tech, and pected oil and gas prices to stay near current levels in
wholesale trade firms reported moderate sales increas- the coming months. For natural gas, the large supply in
es, while transportation contacts indicated a modest the Marcellus formation was the main factor keeping
decrease in activity. Wholesale trade firms expected a price expectations low. Some oil and gas firms also
strong increase in future sales, while professional, high- reported having concerns about labor shortages affect-
tech, and transportation contacts anticipated a more ing the near-term growth in activity.
moderate sales improvement. Capital spending plans
were favorable among most firms. Agriculture Farm income remained subdued in the Tenth District as
Real Estate and Construction most agricultural commodity prices stayed low. In the
Overall District real estate activity expanded modestly in crop sector, corn and wheat prices declined moderately
late February and March, and further gains were ex- in March and were less than a year ago. Profit margins
pected moving forward. Residential home sales rose were expected to remain weak for corn and wheat pro-
moderately since the previous survey period, but were ducers, although some input costs were expected to
slightly below year-ago levels. Residential home invento- moderate from last year. Soybean prices also decreased
ries were strongly below year-ago levels. Moving for- in March but were slightly higher than a year ago. With
ward, contacts projected a solid increase in residential soybean prices somewhat more favorable, producers
sales due to seasonal factors. Home prices continued to were expected to plant more soybeans this year and less
increase strongly, and sales of low- and medium-priced corn and wheat. In the livestock sector, cattle prices
homes outpaced sales of higher-priced homes. Residen- increased slightly in March and hog prices remained
tial construction activity expanded modestly since the higher than a year ago. Slightly higher prices and lower
previous survey, as construction supply sales, housing input costs improved profit margins modestly for both
starts, and traffic of potential buyers rose. Activity across hog and cattle producers since the last reporting period.
the commercial real estate sector activity continued to ■
rise at a modest pace as vacancy rates declined and
absorption, completions, construction underway, sales
and prices increased. A moderate expansion in the
commercial real estate sector was expected in the com-
ing months.
Banking
Bankers were evenly split between increasing and
steady overall loan demand in late February and March.
Regarding specific types of loans, a majority of respond-
ents indicated a steady demand for commercial and
industrial, commercial real estate, residential real estate,
agricultural and consumer installment loans. Most bank- For more information about District economic conditions visit:
ers indicated loan quality was unchanged compared to a www.KansasCityFed.org/Research/RegionalEconomy J-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas The Beige Book ■ April 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Economic activity in the Eleventh District expanded moderately over the past six weeks, with a slight acceleration from
the prior reporting period. Manufacturing output strengthened further, and activity among nonfinancial services firms
increased. Retail sales rose at a somewhat faster clip, including a pickup in auto sales. Home sales rose during the
reporting period, although apartment demand slowed slightly. Loan demand strengthened and the energy and agricul-
tural sectors improved. Employment and wages increased moderately, as did prices. Outlooks generally improved, with
most contacts expecting 2017 to be stronger than 2016.
Employment and Wages Construction contacts noted higher prices for lumber,
Overall employment rose moderately over the reporting concrete, plumbing and framing. Oilfield services firms
period. Manufacturers have added to payrolls so far this increased prices over the past six weeks, with further
year, in contrast with most of 2015 and 2016 when facto- increases expected as demand picks up.
ry contacts noted employment declines on net. Hiring in Manufacturing
the services sector continued, including slight job gains Expansion in the manufacturing sector picked up pace
among retailers in March. In the energy sector, hiring somewhat over the past six weeks. Output growth re-
among oilfield services firms picked up notably in the first mained slightly stronger for durable goods than nondura-
quarter, while some exploration and production firms bles, with a rebound seen in fabricated metals manufac-
continued to note layoffs. Several contacts speculated turing. Exports remained a source of weakness for firms
that employment in the energy sector will not increase that sell internationally. Overall, outlooks stayed positive.
proportionately with increases in drilling activity because A few manufacturing contacts noted considerable policy
of improved production technology and efficiencies. uncertainty, especially regarding any changes that would
Labor market tightness has appeared throughout the oil impact trade with Mexico.
and gas supply chain, with several contacts specifically
mentioning shortages of truck drivers, and nearly all Refinery utilization along the gulf coast was healthy.
sectors reported upward wage pressures. Some labor Large inventories of product and expectations for softer
shortages were also noted by manufacturers and certain demand growth continue to put downward pressure on
services contacts, including hospitality. Overall, upward expectations for refinery margins. Chemical producers
wage pressures were similar to the last reporting period. reported healthy domestic demand for a wide range of products and remain optimistic for strong margins this
Prices year. Comments on international chemical demand were
Prices generally increased over the reporting period. An mixed, but generally positive.
exception was in retail where slight declines were seen,
partly due to price cuts for new automobiles. Upward
price pressures in manufacturing eased slightly, retreat-
ing to more normal levels after a few hot months. K-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
Retail Sales Financial Services
Retail sales continued to rise during the reporting period, Loan demand increased over the past six weeks. Total
at a slightly faster pace than the prior period. Auto sales loan volumes expanded, with lenders noting higher
increased, although a contact noted that demand in balances on commercial and industrial loans, as well as
Houston was weak. Other retail firms also noted slower real estate (both commercial and residential) loans.
sales in Houston relative to other Texas metros. Con- However, contacts reported decreased volumes of con-
tacts again mentioned that the depreciation of the peso sumer loans. Contacts indicated improved loan perfor-
was harming overall retail sales along the border. Over- mance and tightened lending standards. More than half
all, outlooks among retailers remained fairly neutral, a of lenders noted an increase in loan pricing over the past
deterioration from the optimism noted in the prior report- six weeks. Contacts also noted an increase in interest
ing period. rates paid on deposits and rising deposit volumes. Out- looks were predominantly optimistic, with expectations
Nonfinancial Services for stronger loan demand and business activity six
Demand for nonfinancial services generally continued to months from now.
increase over the past six weeks, at roughly the same
pace as seen in the prior reporting period. Professional Energy
and technical services firms noted particularly strong Demand for oilfield services improved substantially in the
revenue gains, and leisure and hospitality contacts cited district over the past six weeks. Oil and gas activity
increased revenues in March after losses earlier this surged, with firms noting a pickup in the Eagle Ford
year. Transportation services firms also noted revenue Shale as well as the Permian Basin. Several contacts
gains, with rail contacts noting a strong increase in mentioned that the accelerating pace may not be sus-
crushed stone, which is used for frac sand. Airlines said tainable, expecting rig count growth to moderate mid-
demand was stable over the past six weeks and up from year. Outlooks overall for 2017 were more positive than
a year ago, led by a stronger domestic market. Staffing in the prior reporting period, especially among oilfield
services firms saw a pickup in demand, relative to the six services firms, but most contacts noted concern over
weeks prior as well as the same time last year. Demand expected volatility.
for placements remained particularly strong in Dallas,
especially in relation to Houston, where contacts noted Agriculture
energy firms’ recoveries stalled a bit recently with de- Moisture levels remained favorable across the district,
pressed oil prices. Overall, most services firms noted with ample rainfall received over the reporting period.
improved outlooks. The winter wheat crop was in good shape, and row crop planting continued. Cotton acreage is expected to be up
Construction and Real Estate sharply in 2017, driven by expectations of higher cotton
Home sales rose during the reporting period. Contacts prices this year. Grain prices remained weak and trend-
noted the spring selling season was generally off to a ed down over the past six weeks. The cattle industry
good start, with year-to-date sales close to plan for sev- benefitted from strong pasture conditions and rising
eral builders. However, buyers were price sensitive, and cattle prices. ■
incentives were being offered in some markets, squeez-
ing builders’ margins. Housing affordability continued to
be a concern. Outlooks were positive, and overall senti-
ment in Houston was better than this time last year.
Apartment leasing activity slowed and occupancy fell in
the first quarter. Annual rent growth was solid in Dallas–
Fort Worth but moderated in Austin. Rents were flat to
down in Houston. Contacts generally expect slower rent
growth this year.
Demand for office space was healthy in Dallas–Fort
Worth, and office construction continued to be elevated
there. In Houston, office demand was mostly weak and
office construction tapered. For more information about District economic conditions visit: www.dallasfed.org/research/texas K-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco The Beige Book ■ April 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Economic activity in the Twelfth District continued to expand at a moderate pace during the reporting period of mid-
February through March. The labor market continued to tighten, wage pressures picked up further, and inflation
increased modestly. Sales of retail goods improved moderately, and growth in the consumer and business services
sectors remained strong. Manufacturing activity changed little on balance, and conditions in the agriculture sector
improved modestly. Contacts reported continued strong activity in residential real estate markets, while conditions in the
commercial sector slowed to a modest pace in some regions. Lending activity grew at a moderate pace.
Employment and Wages modestly. Branded pharmaceutical price increases
The labor market continued to tighten, and wage pres- remained subdued, while strong competition held down
sures picked up further. Contacts reported record-high prices for generic drugs. Improved economies of scale
demand, as well as wage increases, for engineers with reduced cloud computing costs, while prices for high-end
experience in cloud computing. Contacts also noted that smartphones and tablets continued to trend downward.
technology and non-technology sectors are increasingly Wholesale food retailers reported slight year-over-year
competing for workers with the same advanced skills. In deflation.
the financial services sector, wages for unskilled entry- Retail Trade and Services
level positions increased markedly. Labor shortages in Activity in the retail sector improved moderately over the
the construction industry persisted, driving up wages for reporting period. Overall, retail sales experienced steady
skilled workers. Demand for labor in the agriculture growth, but consumer preferences continued to shift
industry continued to outpace supply, putting upward from buying in-store to using e-commerce. Vehicle sales
pressure on wages. One contact noted that growers rebounded strongly from a weak start to the year, and
continue to automate production where possible. Con- dealers reported low inventories of used vehicles. Sales
tacts in the pharmaceutical manufacturing industry of retail beverage products were stable, although an
reported relocating workers and operations to lower-cost unusually wet winter in the West somewhat slowed foot
locales outside of the District. traffic at many vendors. Optimism among grocery retail-
Prices ers boosted capital expenditures on store improvements
Overall, inflation increased modestly over the reporting and new location openings.
period. Prices for construction materials continued to Activity in the consumer and business services sector
climb as construction activity remained strong. Increas- remained strong. Shipping volumes continued to expand
ing wage costs pushed up hotel rates and prices for at a solid pace, and contacts noted that volume growth
associated services such as parking and food and bever- was particularly strong for lower-priced e-commerce
age services. Shipping costs increased moderately. goods. Demand for business IT services strengthened,
Contacts in the retail food and beverage industry report- driven by increased investments in cloud services, mobil-
ed that increases in labor costs were passed through to ity, and big data solutions in the financial services,
consumers. Prices of agricultural commodities picked up manufacturing, and health-care sectors. Contacts in the L-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco
hospitality industry reported that overall sales improved, Real Estate and Construction
but mentioned that hotel stays were lower than expected Conditions in real estate markets remained stable, and
due to changes in immigration policy and increased activity remained strong in most of the District. Demand
scrutiny of foreign arrivals. Demand for restaurant ser- for residential real estate remained robust in most parts
vices remained sluggish, but the industry remains hope- of the District. Overall, contacts reported that construc-
ful that the recent slump in sales is transitory and tion activity was slowed only by a lack of available land,
expects sales to increase in the coming months as the labor, and materials. Sales of new and existing homes
weather improves and consumers receive tax refunds. were robust, and inventories remained low, with one contact in Seattle reporting that new property listings
Manufacturing remained on the market for only a couple of days. A few
Manufacturing activity was mixed across sectors but contacts outside of major metropolitan areas reported
largely flat on balance over the reporting period. Condi- that recent increases in mortgage rates had caused
tions in the semiconductor industry were healthy, and demand to slow modestly, although it remained strong.
consolidation in the industry picked up significantly. House prices and rents continued to increase, particular-
Orders for new commercial aircraft were up over the ly in cities, where some contacts noted that both rose at
same period last year, while shipments remained stable. a faster pace than wages. In some regions, activity in the
On balance, exports of manufactured goods continued to commercial real estate sector slowed to a modest pace.
be held back by the strong dollar. However, demand for In Alaska, residential and commercial construction activi-
domestic steel picked. Overall, contacts reported that ty declined, as commercial investment stalled and overall
capacity utilization in the manufacturing sector remained economic activity remained sluggish.
below long-run averages. Financial Institutions
Agriculture and Resource-Related Industries Lending activity grew at a moderate pace over the
Activity in the agriculture sector grew modestly over the reporting period. Loan demand continued to expand at a
reporting period. Increased water availability in the West moderate pace, and contacts reported that competition
boosted yields for some crops. A greater-than- on pricing and fees remained high. Deposits expanded
anticipated snow cover in parts of the West spurred moderately and were sufficient to finance lending activi-
ranchers to increase herds’ food allowances, boosting ties. On balance, credit quality remained strong, but one
the demand for hay. Oil production remained stable in contact pointed to some loosening of underwriting stand-
Alaska, but relatively low oil prices have slowed invest- ards. Commercial banks’ net interest margins improved
ment substantially. The strong dollar held back exports modestly with recent increases in broad market rates.
for some agricultural products. On balance, growers One contact in the Pacific Northwest reported that the
anticipate that rising global economic activity will yield continued growth of credit unions threatened smaller
additional demand for domestic exports this year. community banks in their region. ■ L-2



