 For use at 2:00 p.m., E.S.T. Wednesday January 22, 1997
Summary of Commentary on Current Economic Conditions by Federal Reserve District January 1997

SUMMARY OF COMMENTARY ON CURRENT ECONOMIC CONDITIONS BY FEDERAL RESERVE DISTRICT January 1997

 TABLE OF CONTENTS
SUMMARY ....................................................... i
First District - Boston ...................................... I-1
Second District - New York ................................... II-1
Third District - Philadelphia ............................... III-1
Fourth District - Cleveland ................................... V-1
Fifth District - Richmond ..................................... V-1
Sixth District - Atlanta ..................................... VI-1
Seventh District - Chicago .................................. VII-1
Eighth District - St. Louis ................................ VIII-1
Ninth District - Minneapolis ................................. IX-1
Tenth District - Kansas City .................................. X-1
Eleventh District - Dallas ................................... XI-1
Twelfth District - San Francisco ............................ XII-1

 SUMMARY* Economic growth in December and early January was moderate in most parts of the
country. Holiday season sales were in line with retailers' expectations of moderate growth.
Manufacturing activity continued to grow, with significant strength coming from capital
equipment and materials manufacturers. Bank loan activity continued at high levels, with mixed
growth across Districts; some Districts reported signs of slight deterioration in consumer credit
quality. Residential real estate markets remained stable or improved in most areas, and
commercial real estate markets were almost uniformly tight. District reports provided scattered
evidence of increasing wage pressures, particularly for skilled workers, but in general did not
indicate significant price pressures other than for energy items.
Consumer Spending Holiday sales improved over last year by small to moderate amounts that generally met
retailers' expectations. Among Districts providing numerical reports, year-over-year holiday sales
growth was 4 to 8 percent in New York, around 5 percent in Philadelphia, 7 percent in St. Louis,
and 0 to 2 percent in Minneapolis. Virtually all Districts noted that the strongest sales were in
small-ticket items such as apparel and toys; New York and St. Louis reported that jewelry also
sold well. In contrast, consumer electronics showed weak year-over-year sales gains, with the * Prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco based on information collected
before January 13, 1997. This document summarizes comments received from businesses and
other contacts outside the Federal Reserve System and is not a commentary on the views of
Federal Reserve officials.

 ii exception of solid growth for large screen televisions and satellite dishes in Cleveland, non- computer electronics in New York, and general electronics in St. Louis. Retail sales of computer equipment in particular were disappointing, according to Philadelphia, Richmond, and San Francisco. Accurate planning among retailers in general kept inventories on target for most product lines. As a result, price discounting was limited; the exceptions include reports of widespread discounting by retailers in Minnesota and discounting on apparel in Boston. Strong post-holiday sales in the New York and Chicago Districts contributed further to lean inventories in those areas. Reports on the automobile market were slightly downbeat. Philadelphia, Kansas City,
Dallas, and Minneapolis all reported slow December sales. In the Cleveland District, however,
strong sales during the last two weeks of December left dealers optimistic that "marginally high"
inventories there would return to preferred levels by February.
Manufacturing Manufacturing activity held steady or expanded in most areas. The strongest sectors were
those that produce steel and other metals, machine tools, construction materials such as lumber,
and capital equipment for transportation and construction. Boston, Philadelphia, Cleveland,
Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, and San Francisco all reported heightened
activity in one or more of these sectors. Automobile and parts production reportedly expanded in
Chicago and Atlanta, although Boston reported intense competition among auto suppliers there.
In the high-tech sectors, semiconductor firms exhibited signs of recovery from a weak 1996, and
computer firm shipments reportedly picked up following weak holiday sales. Both the Dallas and
San Francisco Districts benefitted noticeably from these trends, and Minneapolis reported that

 iii
electronics manufacturers did well there. On the down side, furniture orders weakened in
Richmond, and furniture inventories increased in Atlanta. Among nondurable goods sectors, food processing in Minneapolis and poultry processing
in St. Louis both expanded. However, apparel and textile production was weak in Richmond and
Atlanta, as was the market for paper in Richmond and Boston. Petroleum producers benefitted
from high prices and were operating at or near maximum capacity in Minneapolis and Dallas, with
very low inventories reported by the latter District.
Nonfinancial Services and Tourism The few reports on nonfinancial service activities were mixed. Richmond reported slower
growth in service employment, due to declines in business and personal services, and Cleveland
reported a decline in temporary employment, perhaps due to seasonal factors. In contrast, San
Francisco reported strong growth in demand for telecommunications services. Performance in tourist trade varied substantially across regions, due largely to weather
considerations. Warm weather reduced downhill skiing business in the Richmond District but did
not increase coastal tourism over last year's level. Minneapolis reported that extreme cold and
stormy conditions in early January reduced winter sport tourism in the District. San Francisco
reported reduced tourism in Northern California and Nevada due to recent flooding. In contrast,
Atlanta reported excellent tourist activity, particularly in Florida: theme parks set attendance
records there, and Miami was a popular destination.
Real Estate and Construction Most areas experienced stable or rising demand and active construction, with noticeable
strength coming from tight markets for commercial real estate. Atlanta, New York, Richmond,

 iv
Chicago, and St. Louis reported strong or rising commercial construction activity. Furthermore,
Philadelphia and Dallas reported high levels of commercial leasing and sales and low vacancy
rates. Boston reported increasing prices for commercial properties in Massachusetts. Residential markets appear stable overall, with small improvement reported in some
Districts and slight slowing reported in others. Where slowing occurred, however, building
activity generally exceeded year-ago levels. New York and Chicago reported firming conditions
in their residential markets. "Boom" conditions persisted for residential markets in many portions
of the Minneapolis district. Residential housing sales eased somewhat in Richmond, although
permits were up there. Kansas City noted some slowing in housing starts and sales, with the latter
confirmed by a reported decline in mortgage lending. Within the San Francisco District, real
estate markets were strong in most areas; California was the primary exception. Although total
building activity in California continued to be weak, home sales and prices rose in some parts of
the San Francisco Bay Area, and the Los Angeles area showed signs of improvement following its
prolonged housing slump.
Banking Banks reported active loan markets overall, although with limited growth on average and
more strength in commercial loans than in consumer and mortgage loans. Total loan volume
grew in Cleveland, St. Louis, Kansas City, and San Francisco. In contrast, New York reported
declines in all categories, with the sharpest drop in mortgage lending. Richmond reported that
commercial loans "changed little," while demand for consumer and mortgage loans declined.
Total lending was flat in Atlanta, Dallas, Philadelphia, and Chicago; credit card loans, however,
expanded in the latter two districts.

 V Loan quality was reported to be good in most areas, except for concerns about consumer credit in some Districts. New York and Kansas City noted higher consumer loan delinquencies, and Cleveland reported rising consumer bankruptcies. Both Cleveland and Richmond described loan competition as "fierce." Agriculture Reports on the agricultural sector were mixed, with inclement weather clouding the picture in some areas. On the up side, Kansas City reported a good winter wheat crop, and
Richmond noted that its winter wheat crop was "on schedule." Furthermore, Kansas City
reported that reinvestment of strong 1996 farm revenues was reflected in higher sales of new farm
equipment. On the down side, excessive rain interfered with field work and delayed corn
harvesting in Richmond, and flooding damaged some crops in the San Francisco District. A
December cold snap hurt vegetable crops in Dallas, although citrus crops were spared. Livestock conditions also were mixed. Cattle feeding costs were reduced by warm
weather in Richmond but increased by cold weather in Minneapolis. In San Francisco, heavy rains
improved grazing conditions for a time, but later flooding necessitated herd movement to less
attractive grazing areas.
Employment and Wages Wage increases were reported to be moderate overall, despite widespread reports of
continued wage pressure for various skilled worker groups. Excess demand for skilled
manufacturing, administrative, or technical workers-particularly computer technicians-was
noted by Boston, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Atlanta, St. Louis, and San Francisco. Richmond
reported that "wage pressures were more evident" in general, and Chicago identified "signs of

 vi increasing wage pressures." Furthermore, labor markets were uniformly tight in Kansas City, St. Louis, and Minneapolis. However, no District reported large year-over-year wage increases; reported numerical increases were 2 to 4 percent in Boston, "less than 4 percent" in Philadelphia, and 2 to 3-1/2percent in Minneapolis. Prices Price pressures were moderate overall, with the primary exception of sharply rising energy
costs. The prices of manufacturing raw materials or goods were characterized as stable in New
York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, and Minneapolis, and earlier pressure on construction costs in the
Chicago District has eased. In Richmond, however, "price increases were more widely reported"
than earlier, and Dallas noted rising prices for some raw materials and retail products. St. Louis
reported that "recent increases in energy prices are being passed along to customers" in the
transportation industry.

 I-1 FIRST DISTRICT - BOSTON The First District economy continues to expand at a moderate pace. Retailers say sales in the holiday
period were modestly higher than a year earlier and mostly in line with their expectations. Over half the
manufacturing contacts report rising or unchanged revenues. Commercial real estate markets are fairly
stable, with activity more robust in Massachusetts than elsewhere in New England. Insurance company
results vary among products. Prices of manufactured goods are said to be generally level, although manufacturers report paper
prices are down sharply, while prices of selected other materials have risen modestly; some manufacturers'
selling prices, largely for certain business services and consumer products, are also up modestly. Retailers
also say most prices are stable, but they cite price increases for high-end apparel and tourism, and significant
discounting for low- to mid-range apparel and appliances.
Retail Most contacts in the retail sector saw a modest increase in sales for the fourth quarter that was in line
with expectations. As a result, their inventories are right on track, with no over- or under-stocking reported.
Some sectors were stronger than expected (building materials, apparel, food, and tourism). Strong apparel
sales, however, are attributed in part to significant price discounting in the low to middle ranges. Sales of
appliances, personal computers, and consumer electronics declined in the quarter, but in line with
expectations. Respondents expect a continuation of modest sales growth through the first half of 1997. Employment is said to be increasing in line with consumer spending and this steady growth is
expected through 1997. Wages are reported to have risen slightly in the last quarter and this trend is also
expected to continue. All respondents indicate that competitive pressures are constraining their ability to raise prices, even
with increased demand. Costs are stable, so profit margins are generally holding. However, some sectors

 I-2
(low- to middle-range apparel and appliances) report significant price discounting and lower profit margins.
Only two sectors (high-end apparel and tourism) are reporting price increases on account of higher demand,
and these increases are characterized as a recovery of ground lost to discounting earlier in the year; they
expect competition to constrain further price increases. No contacts except those in tourism plan to expand
capital significantly in 1997. Overall, retail respondents see modest and sustainable growth continuing
through 1997.
Manufacturing Half of the First District manufacturers contacted have experienced revenue gains from a year ago.
Substantial increases are reported for innovative technology products, furniture, selected consumer items, and
some business services provided by manufacturers. Revenues have been flat or declining for the remaining
half of the sample. Paper prices are down sharply as a result of excess capacity in the industry. Intense
competition has resulted in declining business for some automotive suppliers. Most contacts report that materials prices have been flat or declining. In some cases, this is due to
more aggressive dealings with suppliers or the appreciation of the dollar relative to the yen. Manufacturers
mention small to moderate increases in the cost of plastic resins, gelatin, abrasives, and furniture-grade
maple. Selling prices are reported to be stable or rising up to 3 percent. The increases are largely for
business services and consumer products. Manufacturers do not anticipate much change in overall employment levels in 1997. Demand is
rising for professional, sales, and services employees, while productivity gains are limiting the need for
production workers. Most contacts indicate pay increases of 2 to 4 percent in 1996, with similar raises
projected for 1997. Compensation packages are escalating more for high tech workers and some managers.
Companies report aggressive competition to hire hardware and software engineers. Health care and other
benefits do not appear to be creating much, if any, cost pressure, especially with the continued adoption of
managed-care health plans.

 I-3 Most manufacturers expect a positive macroeconomic environment in 1997, although some mention a stock market correction or consumer indebtedness as possible sources of weakness. One-half of the respondents have aggressive capital spending plans. Commercial Real Estate The commercial real estate market in New England has not changed much during the last quarter. Massachusetts continues doing extremely well, Maine is still relatively weak, and activity levels in the other states in the region remain between those two. Massachusetts has experienced a significant increase in demand for commercial space, especially in
the Greater Boston area. Since there has been little new construction, vacancy rates are down and prices are
rising. High prices for downtown office space have induced many new companies to locate in the suburbs.
While prices have almost reached their 1980s levels, banks' reluctance to lend for real estate is said to have
limited speculative construction. Outside Massachusetts, market conditions are mixed. Some sectors are seeing declining vacancy
rates and increasing prices, but others still have high levels of inventory. Retail real estate markets have been
strong in most places, mainly due to the mild winter and a successful holiday season. Contacts report no
major new construction projects in their states. Most respondents are optimistic about the outlook,
anticipating steady prices and decreasing vacancy rates during the coming quarter.
Nonbank Financial Services Respondents at insurance companies report continued weak sales of life insurance in the fourth
quarter and strong sales of mutual funds and variable annuities. Employment moved down slightly in the
fourth quarter. Consolidations in the insurance industry are expected to continue in 1997, contributing to
further reductions in employment.

 II-I SECOND DISTRICT--NEW YORK The Second District economy has a slightly firmer tone than in the last report, while price
pressures remain subdued. Major retailers report that holiday-season and post-holiday sales were on or
above plan. Persistent strength in the commercial and multi-family real estate markets finally appears
to be spurring a pickup in development and construction activity; the single-family housing market
continues to lag. Regional purchasing managers' reports were generally upbeat in December. Tourism
remained strong through year end. There has been no evidence of increased price pressures since the
last report. Finally, regional banks report some softening in demand for residential mortgage loans;
delinquency rates rose for consumer and home mortgage loans, but declined for commercial loans.
Consumer Spending Most major retailers report that holiday sales in the region were above plan, with November-
December same-store sales running 5-8 percent higher than a year ago, helped by a surge in the final
days before Christmas. Post-holiday sales were also reported to be strong, with one contact observing
fewer than usual merchandise returns. A separate survey of small retailers across New York State shows
same-store sales up 4-6 percent from 1995, and generally close to plan, with the strongest reports
coming from Manhattan. Both large and small retailers noted that apparel, as expected, was the
strongest category- particularly women's and children's apparel-along with jewelry. Big-ticket
durables, such as home furnishings, appliances and electronics were generally weak, though a few
contacts at large chains remarked that toys and electronics (other than computers) sold fairly well. One
major discounter noted strong post-holiday demand in the home improvement category. Most of the retailers surveyed report that inventories are in good shape; however, many
electronics stores were left with large stocks and one major general merchandise chain mentioned some
overhang of home appliances. There was reportedly less aggressive discounting than a year earlier but

 II-2 still more than most contacts had anticipated. Merchandise costs were said to be flat to declining, and
there were no reported wage pressures; thus, most retailers saw improvement in gross margins, compared with the 1995 season. New York State sales taxes on most apparel are being waived for the week starting January 18, prompting many retailers to delay inventory clearance sales until then; this may give some boost to
January retail sales, at the expense of February.
Construction & Real Estate The region's real estate markets continue to firm. Even the lagging single-family housing market
has registered steady but gradual improvement. Realtors in New York and New Jersey estimate that
fourth-quarter existing home sales rose 3-4 percent from a year earlier, with prices up 2-5 percent.
While builders have grown a bit more upbeat about the market for new homes in recent weeks, they
emphasize that overall building activity is still only barely above the depressed levels of the early 1990s. In contrast, the tight apartment market in the New York City area is evidently spurring a pickup
in multi-family development. More than twice as many apartment units were authorized by building
permits in 1996 (mostly in the second half) as in any of the prior five years. This is consistent with
anecdotal reports: industry contacts in New York City say that a large number of residential projects are
underway or set to get underway in 1997. In addition, one industry expert estimates that 2,500 new
residential units will be created from a wave of office conversions in Lower Manhattan next year. Strength in the region's commercial markets is also spurring new development. Major
commercial projects underway in New York City in 1997 include a new terminal at Kennedy Airport,
a high-tech commodity exchange trading floor, three major entertainment complexes, three new hotels,
and a number of major superstores and supermarkets. The office market also continues to firm; vacancy
rates across the New York City area continue to fall, though asking rents remain virtually flat.

Other Business Activity Regional purchasing managers reports were generally upbeat in December. Buffalo purchasing
managers report continued strength in new orders and a pickup in hiring activity, but some slowing in
production activity; they also reported a modest increase in cost pressures. New York City purchasing
managers report continued growth in the manufacturing sector, though at a slower pace than in
November. [Those in non-manufacturing sectors reported strong improvement in business conditions
in December.] Prices were reported to be essentially flat. Unemployment edged up 0.1 point in both New York and New Jersey in November; the payroll
survey showed a sharp decline in government payrolls, offset by an acceleration in private-sector job
growth. Some firms in upstate New York report shortages of educated entry-level workers and
computer programmers. Consumer confidence climbed to its highest level in more than six years in
December, though it is still lower than in any other region. Tourism was reported to be exceptionally
strong in the fourth quarter, with hotel occupancy rates holding near record highs.
Financial Developments According to a survey of senior loan officers at small to medium sized banks in the District,
demand for all categories of loans weakened somewhat since the last report. The decline was sharpest
in the residential mortgage segment. Refinancing activity for all types of loans declined slightly. Overall
credit standards were largely unchanged, though there was some tightening for consumer loans. Average loan rates declined for all types of loans, with rates lower at 25 percent of banks and
higher at just 3 percent. In contrast, average deposit rates increased, with 27 percent of the participating
banks reporting an increase and only 6 percent reporting a decline. Delinquency rates continued to edge
up for consumer and residential loans, but they declined for commercial, industrial and nonresidential
mortgage loans.

 III-1 THIRD DISTRICT - PHILADELPHIA Reports from Third District business contacts in early January suggest that economic activity in the region has been moving up slowly. Manufacturers said orders were increasing and they have stepped up shipments. Most retailers indicated that they met their planned sales levels for the Christmas period--around 5 percent above 1995--but electronics and computer stores failed to match either their expectations or their year-ago results. Auto dealers said sales dropped
seasonally in December but they expect a rebound soon. In general, both manufacturers and
retailers indicated that inventories were around planned levels. Bankers reported a seasonal
increase in credit card lending but said other types of lending have been flat. Businesses in several areas of the Third District noted continued hiring, especially in
some service industries. However, manufacturers have generally not been seeking to increase
employment, although they continue to say they need skilled workers in some specialized
occupations. According to reports from some major employers in the District, there does not
appear to be an acceleration in the rate of general wage increases.
MANUFACTURING Manufacturing activity picked up in early January after a slow December, according to
reports received from Third District industrial plants. New orders were moving up, and
shipments were increasing slightly while order backlogs were falling. Inventories increased
slightly. Producers of durable goods reported slightly stronger demand for their products than
did producers of nondurable goods.

 III-2 Area manufacturing firms are expecting some improvement in the first half of the year
despite the current slow start. On balance, they predict rising orders and shipments over the
winter and spring, but they are not planning to build up inventories in anticipation of the increased demand for their products. Industrial prices have shown virtually no change; manufacturers said both input costs and
output prices have been mainly flat in recent weeks. Although a few manufacturers said they
expect some price increases will be announced by their suppliers early in the year, they are not
certain these higher prices will be effectively implemented.
RETAIL Most Third District retailers contacted in early January said their sales for the Christmas
shopping period met planned levels, which called for a year-over-year increase of around 5
percent, in current dollars. Several department stores reported that their gains were even greater,
but some stores concentrating in electronics and personal computers failed to meet expectations,
and some of them saw sales decline from the levels of Christmas 1995. Unplanned discounting
appeared to be minimal in the final days before Christmas as well as in the week after. Several
stores noted that they ran out of popular items before Christmas and were unable to replenish
stocks. Most retailers said their inventories were at desired levels as the new year began, and
some described them as below normal. Auto dealers in the region said sales dipped seasonally in December but they expect a
rebound soon. Inventories varied among dealers but appeared to be around planned levels
overall. In general, dealers expect sales in 1997 to be about even with the 1996 total, and they
expect sales of light trucks and sport-utility vehicles to continue to be relatively stronger than

 III-3
sales of sedans. Although some manufacturers' rebate programs have been extended into the
new year and some reduced finance rates have been offered recently, dealers do not anticipate an
extensive increase in these promotional strategies.
FINANCE Bank lending picked up seasonally for consumer loans, mainly credit cards, in mid-
December, according to Third District bankers, but other credit categories have been flat. Most
bankers continued to say competition for new business loans was strong and there was currently
little net growth in business loan volume among major banks in the region. While some bankers
and other business contacts said many firms were planning increased capital spending in 1997,
bankers said they have not seen any indications that this will result in significantly stepped-up
borrowing by either current or new customers.
LABOR DEMAND Increased employment has been evident in some areas of the Third District recently.
Businesses in central Pennsylvania and Delaware indicated that they have added workers and are
looking for more. Most of the job gains have been in service industries. Manufacturing
employment continued to drift down in most of the District, but demand for skilled
manufacturing workers, such as machinists and tool makers, is reported to exceed the supply of
available workers in many areas. The occupational categories for which there has been relatively
strong demand are administrative and data processing workers and truck drivers. Despite the
signs of increased labor demand, most of the employers reporting on their latest companywide
pay increases are raising wages less than 4 percent, around the same as recent annual increases.

 IV-1 FOURTH DISTRICT - CLEVELAND
General Business Conditions The District economy is holding steady at a good level, with many areas reporting
joblessness near--or below--the national average. Business activity remains especially
strong in the central Ohio and southeastern Ohio/northern Kentucky regions, although
virtually every major area reports favorable economic conditions. Even in southwestern
Pennsylvania, where business activity has been more moderate, joblessness has fallen to a
six-year low. According to District employment agencies, hiring of temporary workers slowed
slightly in December, mostly likely due to seasonal cutbacks. Still, employment growth
remains above its rate at this time last year, and demand for general clerical, data
processing, and technical positions continues to be strong. Wage growth has picked up
somewhat, especially for technically skilled workers such as engineers. Employment
agencies also report that benefit packages at smaller firms have increased as a result of
tightened labor markets.
Manufacturing Manufacturing production is rising and orders growth appears to have improved a
bit recently. Capital goods producers continue to be especially upbeat in their appraisal of
business conditions, although materials producers also see improvement. Local reports
indicate that steel demand has strengthened and prices have risen, and many District

 IV-2
producers plan to expand their production capacity this year. Elsewhere, commodity
prices were unchanged, or only slightly higher from the last District report. Manufacturing employment is steady or moderately higher, and wage increases are
reported to be light despite generally tight labor markets. Still, manufacturers say that
finding qualified workers remains a challenge.
Retailing District retailers report mixed results for late November and December sales.
While retail spending appears to have been stronger than for the same time last year, some
retailers expressed disappointment in holiday-season receipts. Sales of electronics remain
soft (although large screen televisions and satellite dishes are selling well). Items in
demand during the holiday season included apparel, toys, and some household goods such
as appliances. There was no strong consensus that the shortened shopping interval
between Thanksgiving and Christmas had an adverse effect on total sales for the period. Retail inventory levels are reported to be "on plan," in part because of conservative
stockpiling prior to this shopping season. Several major retail chains have plans to open
stores in the District this year, whereas very few report plans to close stores.
Auto Dealers 1996 was a good year for District auto dealers. All of those surveyed reported
sales at or exceeding 1995's high levels. While October and November were somewhat
weaker than in the previous report, the year ended on a positive note with a surprise surge

 IV-3
in the last two weeks of December. Overall, the auto sales outlook for 1997 ranged from
uncertain to fairly optimistic. Dealers describe their inventories as marginally higher than desired, but they
anticipate very little difficulty returning to preferred levels by the end of February. Still,
respondents characterize the new-car market as extremely competitive. Several dealers
note a drop-off in demand for used cars, breaking a two-year upward sales trend in this
market.
Banking and Finance Lending activity in the District was good at the end of the year, according to
District bankers. Growth in consumer loan demand is moderate overall, with strong gains
in seasonal credit card use. Commercial loan demand is also reported as moderate-to-
strong. The growth rate of delinquencies has leveled off somewhat, with some bankers
reporting a drop in past-due loans. However, many bankers note a rise in household
bankruptcies, which in some cases occur without experiencing credit delinquency. Most respondents describe competition for borrowers as fierce. The spread
between lending and deposit rates has tightened as depositors continue to move savings
into higher yielding money-market accounts. Bankers report mixed credit quality trends,
about half see no recent change, while the others see a slight deterioration. Some lenders
report a tightening in credit standards for credit cards.

 FIFTH DISTRICT-RICHMOND Overview: Fifth District economic activity remained at a high level in recent weeks, although the rate of growth has moderated. Retail sales rose sharply since October and the commercial real estate market remained strong. Service sector growth slowed as did growth in state revenues. Manufacturing activity was mixed and loan demand slackened. Unfavorable
weather hurt ski resorts' business and hampered crop harvests. Labor markets tightened further, and wage pressures were more evident. Price increases were more widely reported; retail and service sector prices rose more quickly, and commercial rents continued to rise. Retail Trade: The pace of retail activity escalated since the last Beige Book report.
Retailers reported robust gains in apparel sales, but indicated that general merchandise and
computer sales were down. Shopper traffic and inventories at most stores expanded at a faster
pace in recent weeks, although some automobile dealers reported declines in both. Retail
employment grew more quickly, and retailers, particularly in urban areas, had difficulty finding
employees. Wage pressures continued to be widely reported. Respondents noted that retail
prices rose somewhat more quickly, and they expected slightly higher prices and increased
demand for their products over the next six months. Services: The service sector grew more modestly in recent weeks, held back by declines
in business and personal services. Employment growth remained modest and the rapid pace of
wage growth reported in the last Beige Book slackened. Wage pressures were less pronounced in
the wholesale trade, finance, and insurance industries, however, some contacts in the hotel
industry noted that tight labor markets were "driving [their] pay scales higher." Prices at service-
producing firms rose more quickly. Looking ahead, respondents expected demand for services to
be steady over the next six months. Manufacturing: Activity in the District's manufacturing sector was mixed. Shipments
were lower in the textiles, furniture, and paper goods industries. In contrast, shipments of metals,
lumber, chemicals, and transportation equipment strengthened. Generally, the volume of new
orders increased at a faster pace. However, producers of paper products, furniture, and rubber

 V-2
and plastics reported fewer orders. Despite increased hiring by tobacco and transportation
equipment firms, manufacturing employment fell somewhat during December, as textiles,
furniture, and chemicals firms trimmed payrolls. Shorter hours at textile, furniture, and paper
plants trimmed the average workweek. Finished goods prices declined and raw materials prices
grew at a slower rate. Tourism: Unseasonably warm weather hampered tourism in late December and early
January. Respondents reported that a lack of natural snow and the inability to make snow closed some ski areas and limited the number of trails that others could operate. Despite the shutdowns,
one contact from a popular ski resort stated that if the weather cooperates for the rest of the
winter, they could still surpass their record-breaking 1996 season. Many contacts at coastal areas
noted that despite unseasonably warm weather, tourist activity had slowed from November,
although winter hotel bookings were about the same as last year. Temporary Employment: The demand for temporary workers increased during
December and early January, as qualified help remained in short supply. Most contacts noted an
increase in the demand for light-industrial workers while the need for information technology
workers remained high. One North Carolina agent reported that more employers in his area were
seeking managerial-level employees. Wage pressures continued, especially in areas of low
unemployment. In the tight Spartanburg, S.C. labor market, a contact said that offers of higher
wages were starting to attract workers from low-paying permanent positions. Finance: District banks reported somewhat lower demand for mortgage and consumer
loans during December and early January, while commercial loan demand changed little. Contacts
attributed the drop in mortgage lending to an uptick in interest rates. One Virginia banker
indicated that higher rates "put the brakes on" customer interest, bringing the demand for home
loans "to a screeching halt." Several bankers said that high debt levels generally slowed consumer
lending activity, although they noted an increase in debt consolidation loans. The demand for
commercial loans held steady, but contacts reported that the competition for those loans had
become "fierce," leading banks to provide added service and to trim pricing. Residential Real Estate: Residential real estate activity eased slightly during December
and early January. Housing starts and sales were lower, although the number of building permits

increased slightly. Home prices moved marginally higher. Customer traffic was steady, and
several homebuilders noted that the interest shown by "serious" customers had improved.
Homebuilders reported that subcontractors remained in short supply and that lumber prices rose
sharply through November but have stabilized in recent weeks. Commercial Real Estate: The pace of commercial real estate activity accelerated in
recent weeks. Office, retail, and industrial leasing activity picked up, except in North Carolina,
where it remained at a high level. Commercial vacancy rates continued to fall, and rents rose
slightly in most jurisdictions. The availability of prime office space tightened further, and
numerous contacts reported shortages. Many respondents noted an increase in build-to-suit
construction. State Revenues: State revenues have increased at a slower rate since October. General
fund collections were mixed across District states, ranging from modest growth in South Carolina
to a sharp drop in Virginia. A Maryland contact said that poor lottery ticket sales had reduced
general fund collections in her state. Withholding tax collections grew sharply in West Virginia,
but rose modestly elsewhere in the District. Retail sales tax collections increased at a faster rate; a
contact in West Virginia noted that sales tax collections had remained strong for three consecutive
months, following nineteen months of "sluggish" performance. Agriculture: Wet weather across most of the District during December hampered
farmers' ability to do fieldwork. Persistent rainfall delayed corn harvesting and prevented ground
preparation in many areas. However, winter wheat was developing on schedule. In the livestock
sector, mild temperatures reduced the amount of hay needed to feed cattle. In the dairy industry,
falling prices continued to force some small producers to leave the industry. Hog producers in
North Carolina faced higher costs as the lack of sufficient slaughter facilities required them to ship
hogs to plants in other states.

 VI-1 SIXTH DISTRICT - ATLANTA Overview: Contacts around the Sixth District report that economic activity continues to grow at a moderate pace. Retailers' reports on December sales were mixed. A slight decline in production and new orders was noted in the manufacturing sector, while tourism and business travel
was generally reported to be at high levels. Single-family home sales varied across the District,
while commercial real estate markets continued to improve. Banking contacts reported flat loan
demand. In spite of shortages of qualified workers, industry contacts report that wages generally
appear to be holding steady. Consumer Spending: District retailers give varied reports on December sales; on balance
these are positive. The majority of retailers reported that sales exceeded year-ago levels, with a
significant number of those reporting strong increases. Almost two-thirds of the retailers contacted
said that holiday sales met or exceeded their expectations. Apparel sales had by far the strongest
showing across the region. Inventories were described as low or on target in much of the District.
Looking forward, most retailers anticipate that first quarter District sales will be up slightly
compared with last year. Additionally, most retailers do not expect labor or product prices to rise
over the next six months. Manufacturing: More factory contacts note declines in production, new orders, and the
factory workweek since the last Beigebook. Despite these declines, more also expect production to
accelerate in the coming months, although over half of the manufacturers contacted expect to
maintain current employment rolls. Suppliers for the region's auto and recreational vehicle plants
note increasing shipments. Lumber manufacturers are pleased with shrinking inventories and paper
manufacturers note improving sales, although a glut of wood pulp is hurting some companies.

 VI-2
Producers of electrical equipment and appliances report an increasing workweek and improving new
orders. Commercial and Department of Defense aircraft orders are benefitting aircraft engine
producers in Florida and Louisiana. Less positively, inventories are reported to be excessive for
some furniture producers, orders are falling at a large packaging firm, and employment rolls continue
to contract at some apparel mills. Tourism and Business Travel: A strong tourism and convention sector is expected to
continue to support the region's economy in coming months. Local markets in central Florida,
where theme parks are breaking attendance records, report increases in hotel occupancy. Theme
parks on Florida's space coast have recently announced expansion plans in addition to park
expansions already underway in central Florida. South Florida appears to be experiencing one of
the best tourist seasons on record with good weather and little negative news about crime, according
to tourism officials. Hotel bookings for spring are up from a year ago in Miami. Trends in the New
Orleans hotel and hospitality industry reportedly remain positive with more emphasis being focused
on foreign travelers. Construction: According to real estate contacts, single-family home sales and construction
varied widely in markets throughout the District on a year-over-year basis in December. The
majority of contacts report that home inventories are adequate, although several builders expressed
concerns that new home inventories may be moving too high. Realtors generally believe home sales
in the first quarter will exceed the previous year's level, while most builders anticipate construction
activity will be flat to slightly down. Most builders and Realtors contacted expect home prices to
rise over the next six months.

 VI-3 Contacts generally report that commercial construction continues to increase. Declining vacancy rates and higher rental rates continue to drive forward new industrial, office, and retail development. Most commercial projects continue to be build-to-suits; however, several speculative projects are now underway and more are anticipated this year. Overall, the multifamily sector remains healthy; however, some markets have weakened. Financial: Most contacts in the banking industry reported flat lending. Consumer loan
demand was mixed with softness reported in automobile financing. Commercial loans were level,
and mortgage lending slowed slightly. Overall loan quality held steady. Wages and Prices: Locating and hiring qualified workers remains difficult, according to
contacts in some industries, but wages appear to be holding steady in most cases. Contacts in
Tennessee report that shortages of skilled workers are a common concern. Demand for qualified
technology workers is said to be especially strong; some employers are resorting to out-of-state
recruitment and signing bonuses in order to secure talent. More company contacts than before
expect prices for materials and finished goods to increase moderately over the next few months.

 VII-1 SEVENTH DISTRICT-CHICAGO Summary. Overall economic activity in the Seventh District continued to increase moderately in December and early January amid signs of increasing wage pressures. Holiday retail sales gains came in above last year's lackluster results, but fell short of many retailer's earlier expectations. Housing and construction activity picked up at the end of 1996, and manufacturing activity increased at a modest rate. Bankers and other lenders reported that demand for both business and consumer loans remained strong, but showed little or no signs of increasing. The District's labor markets tightened further
with many contacts reporting increasing wage pressures across the board. Agricultural
reports show hog production was still behind year-ago levels, but many observers were skeptical. Consumer spending. Most contacts reported that consumer spending gains in
December were better than last year, but performance was mixed. Some retailers that met
holiday sales targets reported using heavier than normal sales promotions, both before and after Christmas, to do so. However, other retailers went into the season with
conservative sales targets and, as a result, had lean inventories which may have limited
sales gains. For the most part, retailers experienced strong apparel sales, while
electronics and home appliance sales remained relatively soft. One major retailer noted
that increased debt levels may have made consumers reluctant to purchase big-ticket
items. Inventories were considered by most merchants to be in good shape during the
holiday period, which limited the need for unplanned price discounting and resulted in
improved profit margins compared to a year ago. Overall, the region's holiday sales
results were described as "OK" or at least in line with results in other regions, but fell
short of earlier expectations. Several retailers stated that post-holiday sales have been in
line with their holiday sales pace. Housing/construction. Housing activity picked up moderately in December and
early January, on a seasonally adjusted basis, and other construction activity continued to
increase at a modest pace. New housing construction rebounded slightly from a short-
lived slump earlier in the fall, with many contacts pointing to lower mortgage interest
rates and strong labor markets as causes for consumer optimism. One home builders'
association in Michigan described the market as "steady, strong" and noted that builders

 VII-2
were optimistic heading into the new year. Another association in Wisconsin pointed to
increased membership as a sign of increased activity. This contact also noted that
advertising was down in the association's monthly publication, stating that building
supply producers didn't need to buy advertising space, since they were already selling all
that they could produce. Several realtors reported that sales of existing homes remained
strong but may be off slightly from very high levels. Commercial construction activity
continued to increase moderately with sources pointing to the suburban areas as
particularly strong. One contact reported that construction of "category-killers" (strip
malls anchored by large electronics or office/computer retailers) continued to be robust in
Indiana. There were no reports of materials shortages and, with the exception of volatile
lumber prices, few reports of upward cost pressures. Manufacturing. Manufacturing activity at the end of the year changed little from
the pattern of moderating growth that had been evident over the previous few months
(aside from any disruptive effects from recent auto strikes.) Purchasing managers'
indexes from across the District indicated flat to slightly increased overall activity in
December compared to a more widespread, albeit slow, expansion in earlier months. A
major appliance producer reported that shipments of their core products had again slowed
toward the end of the year, after a brief uptick in October. An industry analyst noted that
heavy construction equipment ended the year strong, due in large part to the strength in
nonresidential construction. A major producer of machine tools reported that customer
orders slowed in December and backlogs in some plants had eased. However, one of
their plants that mainly supplies equipment to the auto industry reported that backlogs
remained high. Steel producers noted that demand remained strong, with bookings solid
into the second quarter. In addition, a metal fabricator reported strong demand through
the end of 1996 with no sign of weakening in the near term. Banking. Lending activity continued to be strong around the District in December
and early January, but most financial institutions reported little or no growth in loans. On
the commercial side, several banks noted that lending was being driven largely by
mergers and acquisitions, which was widely dispersed among industries. One large bank
contact stated that aggressive lending targets were exceeded last quarter, and some loans
were shifted to the first quarter. However, one bank reported that loan volumes were
bolstered by lowering credit standards and price, although overall credit quality remained
relatively strong. A small bank noted an uptick in commercial loans in December due to

 VII-3 short-term lending to auto distributors for carrying unplanned inventory, which would be cleared out in January. As a result, the bank's lending activity in January is expected to
be down. Several other small banks characterized lending activity as sluggish. On the
consumer side, credit card usage continued to rise in December. Other forms of consumer
loans were also strong, but growth was modest compared with credit card lending. Most
banks reported that mortgage lending (excluding refinancing) remained relatively strong
but growth performance was varied, with some local markets showing declines and others
showing increases. Labor markets. Labor markets in the Seventh District continued to tighten amid
more widespread reports of increasing wage pressures. Unemployment rates continued a
downward trend through November (latest month available) from already very low rates.
Several temporary help agencies reported that employers, after several months of
stonewalling, were beginning to raise wages in December to attract qualified help. One
agency contact described clients as "finally realizing that they had to loosen the purse
strings if they wanted to fill a position" and another reported that "employers were upping
their offers across the board." One labor market analyst reported that requests for a state-
sponsored occupational wage survey were unusually high, a sign that the analyst felt
indicated employers were preparing to raise their offers. All those contacted described
wage increases as very modest but broad-based across occupations, except in those
occupations where shortages (and wage increases) have persisted for some time. The
shortage of accounting professionals noted in our last report intensified, while that of
skilled construction occupations appears to have eased. Agriculture. Agricultural analysts were surprised by a recent report that showed
hog production continued to be behind year-ago levels. The report noted that hog
numbers were down 3.5 percent from a year ago and the lowest in 6 years. Moreover, it
suggested that the number of sows likely to give birth during the six months ending May
will be down 1 percent. The reported cuts were especially large among District states;
down 8.5 and 5.5 percent, respectively. The cuts imply that this year's rise in meat
production will be somewhat smaller. However, many observers are skeptical of the
reported cuts. The industry continues to undergo enormous structural change, adding to
the larger estimating errors that have become apparent in recent reports. And other signs,
such as a sharp cut in the number of sows shipped to packing plants and strong producer
earnings, suggested that an expansion was already underway.

 VIII-1 EIGHTH DISTRICT - ST. LOUIS
Summary Economic activity has picked up since the last report. District retailers report holiday sales
generally met or exceeded expectations, while auto dealers report sales relatively unchanged from a
year ago. Other business contacts report continued growth in their industries and are optimistic about
the near term; however, a survey of small businesses shows a less favorable outlook for the first half
of 1997 compared with a year earlier. Tight labor markets still prevail in many areas. Contacts in
the transportation industry report that recent increases in energy prices are being passed along to
customers. Real estate markets remain strong in most parts of the District. Loan growth picked up
at large District banks during the last two months of 1996.
Consumer Spending Most retailers surveyed indicated that sales during the 1996 holiday season generally met or
slightly exceeded expectations. On average, sales increased about 7 percent from the previous
holiday season. Electronics, jewelry and toys were the big sellers. Post-holiday inventories are at
desired levels. Most retailers expect moderate-to-good sales to continue during the beginning of this
year. Auto dealers stated that sales during November and December were generally unchanged
from a year earlier. Used car sales are still increasing, but this has not substantially affected sales of
new vehicles. Most dealers expect sales during the first half of 1997 to remain unchanged from, or
be slightly better than, 1996 levels.
Manufacturing and Other Business Activity Most District contacts are optimistic about their firms' near-term prospects. Tight labor

 VIII-2 markets remain a problem for many employers, particularly those in the construction and information technology industries. Some retailers in the southern part of the District had difficulty finding holiday workers. The District's poultry processing industry has been adding new capacity. In fact, one firm that will open a new plant this spring has already announced an expansion. Increased demand from fast- food restaurants has been pivotal in much of this growth. Makers of office electronic equipment are reporting recent capital additions, caused by increased demand, that will also create about 600 new
jobs. Manufactured homes are selling well, leading to a new plant in western Tennessee that will employ 250 workers. The steel industry is following Toyota into southern Indiana, with the announcement of a new plant in the area that will employ more than 400 workers. A bank's mortgage division is adding 200 jobs inLouisville because of increased business from a recent merger. Merger activity has picked up in the District, especially in the St. Louis area. Boeing announced it will merge with McDonnell Douglas. Because the company's defense systems division
will stay in St. Louis, however, the merger is expected to have a minimal effect on the regional
economy. Mercantile Bancorporation will buy Roosevelt Bank, the largest thrift in Missouri. About 50 branches are expected be closed, 30 of which are in St. Louis. A Dutch insurance company,
Aegon, is buying the Providian Corporation's insurance business. About two-thirds of the firm's 1,500 Louisville employees may lose their jobs. A contact in the aerospace industry reports that there has been a 25 percent increase in fuel costs over the past year, which has negatively affected profits. In this vein, a large package delivery firm in the District announced that it will pass along recent increases in energy prices to shippers.
Likewise, trucking industry contacts report that large carriers will probably push through a 4 to 5 percent increase in transportation costs.

 VIII-3
Outlook According to a recent survey of 231 small businesses in the Eighth District, the number of
respondents expecting a deterioration in business conditions over the first half of 1997 outnumbers
those expecting an improving outlook by two-to-one, although a little more than half expect little
change. In general, firms in the trade sector were more upbeat, while those in construction and
finance were somewhat less upbeat. A similar survey conducted a year ago indicated more optimism
among small businesses.
Real Estate and Construction Residential real estate markets remain strong in most parts of the District, with sales of both
new and existing homes up slightly. Monthly residential construction permits in November, however,
were down in all 12 District metropolitan areas. On a year-to-date basis, permits were up in almost
all metro areas. Commercial construction is strong all around the District. Some commercial real
estate agents have noticed a weakening in the apartment and industrial markets in the southern parts
of the District, however.
Banking and Finance Total loans outstanding at 11 large District banks rose 1.1 percent during the last two months
of 1996. In contrast, total loans increased 0.1 percent in September and October and declined 0.1
percent during the last two months of 1995. All categories of loans showed increases, with consumer
loans posting the largest increase, 1.9 percent. Total deposits rose 0.5 percent in November and
December.

 NINTH DISTRICT--MINNEAPOLIS
In the middle of a bitter winter, the economy of the Ninth District is growing moderately.
Construction continues to animate many areas. Oil development is pumping cash into parts of
three states, while mining and forest product output is generally steady. Manufacturers report
generally good business with normal inventories and no price pressures other than in fuels. Severe weather is causing problems for cattle ranchers, and hog slaughter has dropped slightly
compared to a year ago. Consumer spending apparently is guarded, with holiday retail sales
only slightly above 1995 levels and cold weather reportedly slowing car sales. Tourism sector
reports are mixed, but with some improvement in regions that had been slow. Labor markets
remain very tight. Many employers report difficulty in securing needed workers, but few have
given or anticipate large pay increases. Prices, other than for petroleum products, show little
increase.
Construction and real estate
"Vermillion sees housing binge," is a headline describing construction activity in one small
South Dakota city that could apply equally well to several other towns of the same size in
Minnesota, North Dakota or South Dakota. "The boom rolls on," headed a report on
Minneapolis-St. Paul residential building that concluded, "industry experts expect the good
times to continue." Generally strong fiscal positions for most district state governments point
toward increased public-sector construction in 1997, according to one industry official.
Realtors report good business for the season, after some slowness in mid-1996.
Natural resource industries
Oil and gas continue as the natural resource sector's strongest component. Rig counts are
holding up well despite bitter weather. Western North Dakota is the most active area, but two
or three rigs have been drilling in South Dakota, a state that usually has no such activity. Iron
ore and nonferrous mining output is largely stable. Paper, lumber and building board output
shows little change compared to prior quarter and year-earlier levels. Higher prices for
dimension lumber, described as resulting from curtailed imports from Canada, have improved
profitability for sawmills in the western portion of the district that have faced higher acquisition
costs for timber in recent years.

 IX-2
Manufacturing
"Business is very good, our backlog of orders is the highest it has ever been," reports one
North Dakota manufacturer with a national market. Electronics and other technology firms also
reportedly are doing well. A mining equipment manufacturer and fabricators of agricultural
implements reportedly have strong orders. North Dakota continues to add to its agricultural
processing capacity: A 100-employee pasta plant and a corn sweetener plant recently went on
line. One exception to this general pattern is a South Dakota manufacturer of tourist industry
specialties who reports, "We are slow, it was a very soft summer." Industry sources report
normal inventories, with no delays and few price pressures in raw materials.
Agriculture
Extreme cold and unusually deep snow are the most recent scourge for cattle ranchers. Early
and deep snow precluded the use of winter pastures and forced ranchers to dip into hay supplies
earlier than usual. Extreme cold increases the nutritional requirements of cattle and thus of hay
consumption. These factors have led to sharp increases in the prices of hay in Montana and the
Dakotas, further increasing ranch losses. Blizzards over the first weekend in January reportedly
caused mortality in cow herds in north-central South Dakota, but no good estimate of losses is
yet available. However, if ranchers can weather the season, some hope glimmers in the new
year. Many district livestock market analysts believe the price trough in the cattle cycle was
passed in 1996 and that ranchers should see some return to profitability in 1997 with further
improvement in 1998. Hog prices are somewhat higher than in the first half of 1996, and with lower feed costs
following harvest, hog producers are doing better than a year ago. Hog slaughter is down
slightly from year-earlier levels.
Consumer spending
"People are a little disappointed," says one St. Paul, Minn., mall manager in an assessment of
the 1996 holiday shopping season that typifies much of the district. A check verification
service estimated that Minnesota holiday sales were up less than 2 percent and the month of
December itself was flat, both compared to year-earlier levels. Retailers in western Wisconsin,
one of the fastest growing areas in the district, are somewhat more positive as are their
counterparts in North Dakota. "Holiday business: merry but not memorable," is how a Grand
Forks retailer summed up the season. Consumer caution, widespread discounting and intense
competition mark the sales environment described by retailing CEOs at a Minneapolis Fed

 IX-3
meeting. Reports on vehicle sales are mixed; some dealers reported good sales in late 1996, but
association representatives agree that sales have slowed in recent weeks. Bad weather is
blamed in part. "No one wants to go car shopping when the wind-chill is 60 below," says one.
Tourism and recreation
A Montana newspaper reports ski resorts in that state opened up to two weeks early and posted
large year-on-year increases in November and December. Good snow conditions are keeping
ski and snowmobile trails busy in South Dakota, according to a tourist official. But a ski resort
operator in northern Minnesota reports a slight decrease in the number of visitors compared to
last year's record pace, and the deer hunting season in Michigan's Upper Peninsula was
disappointing for local businesses. These reports of greater strength in western areas of the
district reverses a pattern of more optimism in the east that prevailed through much of 1996.
Winter recreation businesses in Minnesota, Wisconsin and Michigan reportedly continue to
anticipate good business, but extremely cold, stormy weather is eroding those hopes.
General business sentiment
Businesspeople who responded to a Ninth District poll at the end of 1996 generally expressed
expectations of continued moderate economic growth in 1997. Nearly two-thirds expect
business investment to increase in their community in 1997, and over half expected increasing
employment levels. Less than a fifth expected wage increases in their community to exceed 4
percent while about a third expected their own firms would raise product prices. Over 80
percent of respondents characterized themselves as somewhat or very optimistic about their
community's prospects for the next 12 months. Within this generally optimistic outlook,
responses were most positive from northwest Wisconsin, Minnesota and eastern North Dakota.
In general, the view from respondents in Montana and South Dakota was decidedly less bright.
Employment, wages and prices
Unemployment rates remain very low in most areas of the district, except for Montana and
Michigan's Upper Peninsula, which are somewhat above the national average. Employers in
many areas continue to express concern about securing needed workers. But most report pay
increases of 2 percent to 3.5 percent. Flat health insurance rates have helped to keep overall
compensation costs down. Petroleum products remain higher than a year ago, but are the only
frequently mentioned higher price.

 X-1 TENTH DISTRICT - KANSAS CITY Overview. The district economy continued to grow moderately the past month, while
showing a few signs of slowing. Manufacturing activity remained fairly strong. Holiday retail
sales were somewhat less than expected, and construction activity edged downward. In the farm
economy, the winter wheat crop remained in good condition and farm finances improved after an
excellent fall harvest. Labor markets remained tight in much of the district, leading some firms
to increase wages. Prices were generally stable at the retail level and for materials used in
manufacturing and construction. Retail sales. Retailers report holiday sales were up only slightly from a year ago and
somewhat lower than expected. Sales are expected to improve somewhat in the coming months,
and some retailers plan to expand stocks to meet increased demand. Automobile dealers report
sales were generally down from the previous month and a year ago. Sales of sport utility
vehicles and light trucks remained strong, however, and some dealers say they are still short of
such vehicles. Manufacturing. Manufacturers continued to operate at moderately high levels of
capacity last month. Manufacturing materials were generally available, with lead times either
holding steady or declining. Manufacturers have been trimming their inventories, and some say
they plan further reductions because stocks exceed desired levels. Housing. Builders report housing starts slowed last month while remaining above year-
ago levels. Most of the decline in starts was in single-family homes. Builders expect little
change in construction activity in the first part of the year. Sales of new homes also fell
somewhat last month. Most building materials were readily available and delivery times were

 X-2
normal. Mortgage lenders report demand was slightly lower last month. Banking. Bankers report that loans and deposits both increased last month, leaving loan-
to-deposit ratios little changed. Commercial and industrial loans, consumer loans, commercial
real estate loans, and agricultural loans all edged up. Demand deposits, NOW accounts, and
money market deposit accounts also rose, while small time deposits and large CDs were flat. Respondent banks held their prime lending rates steady last month and expect to leave
rates unchanged in the near term. Banks also held their consumer lending rates steady and plan
no changes in the near future. Some banks tightened their lending standards on consumer loans,
citing increased delinquencies. Energy. District energy activity declined slightly last month. Oil and gas prices
continued to rise in December and remained well above year-ago levels. Despite the high prices,
the district rig count edged down 2.3 percent in December and was unchanged from a year ago. Agriculture. The district's winter wheat crop is in good condition, with adequate
moisture but no snow cover to protect it from the winter weather. Wheat pasture is excellent this
winter, in contrast to the past few years. Farm income rose in the district in 1996 due to
excellent crops and high crop prices. The rise in farm income in 1996 appeared to help main
street businesses, and farm vehicle and equipment sales have been quite strong recently. Bankers report the higher farm income also led to some overall improvement in farm loan
portfolios in the district. The quality of loans made to crop producers improved substantially in 1996. Performance of loans to livestock producers was mixed, with stronger performance by
loans to cattle feeders offsetting weaker loans to ranchers. District bankers expect farm income
will be mixed in 1997. Crop producers may see their income fall as yields and prices return to

 X-3
normal after an exceptional year in 1996. Lower feed costs and higher calf prices should help
boost profits in the livestock industry this year. Wages and prices. Labor markets were still tight last month, and there continued to be
some evidence of wage pressures. Manufacturers report skilled and unskilled workers remained
in short supply, and some companies say they have responded by increasing wages. Prices held
steady at the retail level and for most manufacturing and construction materials. Retailers expect
no major price changes in coming months.

 XI-1 ELEVENTH DISTRICT--DALLAS In December and early January, Eleventh District economic activity continued to expand at the
slightly stronger pace established in late October and November. There were more reports of price
pressures than in the last beige book, partly as a result of low inventory. Two industries reported that
price pressures were less because new capacity had come on line. Most manufacturing activity was in a
seasonal lull, with the exception of energy-related activity, which was strong. Retailers were happy but
not overwhelmed with holiday sales. The financial services industry reported little change in lending,
and construction and real estate activity continued at roughly the same level. High energy prices kept
drilling and oil services activity strong. Agricultural producers reported generally good conditions, but
would like more rain. Prices. Prices were up for aluminum, brick, scrap metal, retail goods, heating fuel and oil
service companies. Retailers said holiday selling prices were up one to two tenths of a percent above
last year, and one contact said the company is "trying to get margins back to historical levels." Low
inventories of heating fuels and bitterly cold weather in Europe and the U.S. sent fuel prices soaring in
December. Heavy demand for oil service companies pushed their selling prices to a premium. Oil
service firms reported a shortage of some skilled workers, such as machinists, as well as many kinds of
equipment, from offshore rigs to measurement-while-drilling equipment. A shortage of scrap metal
pushed prices up 5 percent over the last 30 days, and contacts expect prices to increase an additional 3
percent over the next quarter. Rising costs are expected to push up prices of corrugated box and liner
board by 6-10 percent in February or March. A slight softening of chemical prices, combined with a
run-up in natural gas and liquids prices, has squeezed profits for petrochemical producers. Some
softening in the price of prefab steel building components was attributed to seasonal factors and

 XI-2
additional capacity. Cement producers said a new terminal at the Port of Houston had increased supply
sufficiently to hold prices steady. Manufacturing. Manufacturing activity was in a seasonal lull, with the exception of computers
and semiconductors which continued to rebound, and energy-related activity which remained strong.
Demand had slowed, seasonally, for boxes and construction-related materials, such as fabricated
metals, brick, lumber and concrete. An increase in demand led to low inventories of steel and scrap
metal. Most construction-related manufacturing contacts expect a good year, although as one said "it
will be hard to top 1996." Very strong demand and high levels of production continue for
petrochemical producers. Gulf Coast refineries have been operating at full capacity in an effort to meet
demands from an inventory running 16 percent under year-ago levels, and to take advantage of high
prices. Maintenance of refineries has been widely delayed to continue heating oil production, and the
usual December turnarounds to begin the transition to summer gasoline production have not taken
place. With gasoline inventories at the lowest levels in recent history, this now raises the possibility of
very tight supplies of gasoline this summer. Retail Sales. Most retailers were happy but not overwhelmed with holiday sales. Contacts
referred to the period as "O.K", "not great", "solid", "decent" and an "obvious improvement".
Retailers said Texas sales were generally better than those posted by the nation as a whole. Several
contacts reported that inventories were slightly lower than expected, with the exception of one company
with higher inventory who had restocked based on better than expected sales. Contacts expect sales to
continue at roughly the same pace throughout the first half of 1997, with some strengthening towards
the third quarter. Two contacts mentioned concern about the high levels of consumer debt. Auto sales
have been slower than expected. Financial Services. The industry has seen little change in lending activity over the last six
weeks. Residential real estate and commercial loan demand continued at the same pace, except in

 XI-3
Houston where increased construction and restoration of apartments pushed up commercial lending.
Outlooks for the New Year remain cautiously optimistic for all loan types. Construction and Real Estate. Activity continued at roughly the same level. Construction of
industrial space was still strong, although demand had declined. Some contacts were concerned about
the amount of supply coming on line, but others were optimistic that announced relocations would spur
an increase in demand in 1997. Residential demand remained steady at high levels, and existing home
sales were reportedly up in most major markets, with the exception of Austin where demand has
softened. In the office sector, contacts said demand for space continued to improve, and rising
occupancies are expected to continue pushing up rents in 1997, boosting office construction. Energy. Oil services companies continue to report very strong demand and full utilization of
capacity. There was no sign of the usual end-of-year build-up in the US rig count, which held steady
between 840 and 860 for the last six weeks of 1996. These levels are the highest of the year, suggesting
industry capacity is maxed out. A substantial increase in capital spending by producers is predicted for
1997, at least 15 percent, but oil service capacity must grow for this to materialize, and much could be
eaten up by higher prices for oil services. Any increased activity will have to be land drilling, because
contacts say every offshore rig available in the world is working now. Agriculture. Land preparations moved ahead in most areas. Many areas could use a good rain
at this point. In December, cold temperatures led to losses of some vegetables but citrus was spared any
serious damage. A return to warmer conditions improved livestock performance, and haying activity
slowed with the warmer temperatures. As this document was being completed, the effects of a deep
freeze that hit the District are unclear.

 XII-1 TWELFTH DISTRICT-SAN FRANCISCO Summary Reports from Beige Book contacts indicate continued strong expansion in most Twelfth
District states toward the end of 1996. Retailers reported a good holiday selling season, although
adverse weather conditions in late December and early January held down post-Christmas retail
activity. Early January flooding in Northern California and Nevada also caused extensive damage
to homes, farms, highways, and tourism facilities. Some efforts to repair damage began
immediately, boosting residential and non-residential construction, which have generally been
strong in District states other than California and Hawaii. Manufacturing activity continued to
increase in recent months, putting some pressure on wages for skilled workers, particularly in the
Pacific Northwest and the San Francisco Bay Area.
Business Sentiment District respondents expect continued expansion of the national economy and their
respective regional economies. Most respondents expect U.S. GDP to continue to grow at its
long-run average pace of 2 to 2-1/2percent in 1997, leaving the national unemployment rate near
its current level. A majority of respondents expect inflation to remain near the current rate this
coming year, although some anticipate a slight pickup in inflation. With regard to regional
conditions, over three-quarters of the respondents expect growth in their area to outpace national
growth in the coming year, with business investment, housing starts, consumer spending, and
foreign trade, all expected to post solid gains in most regions.
Retail Trade and Services Respondents from most District states reported a high level of retail sales in recent

 XII-2
months, despite the shortened holiday selling season. Although somewhat below original
projections, holiday season sales compared with one year ago reportedly posted good gains in
California, the Pacific Northwest, and the Intermountain states. Retailers faced reduced pressure
to discount most items prior to Christmas, given the level of sales and relatively lean inventories
going into the season. However, sales at electronics and computer specialty stores reportedly
were lower than expected, leading to some aggressive discounting. Heavy snow in the Seattle
area immediately after Christmas reportedly held down retail activity there near the end of the
year. Service industries generally reported further growth in recent months. Respondents from
California and the Pacific Northwest reported increasing demand for telecommunications services,
and efforts to keep up with this growing demand reportedly are putting upward pressure on
wages of some types of skilled workers. In Southern California, port traffic was strong, and
tourism activity was brisk. Tourism-related airport traffic and hotel occupancy rates also
increased in several other states, including Utah, where pre-Olympic advertising increased
downhill skiing business. However, heavy rains and flooding constrained tourism in Nevada and
Northern California, largely due to highway and park closures.
Manufacturing The manufacturing sector continued to expand in most areas of the District.
Manufacturing growth was particularly strong in the Pacific Northwest, owing largely to the
resurgence of the aerospace industry and expansions at manufacturers of high technology
components and equipment. Wood product sales in the Pacific Northwest also were high,
boosted by demand for materials to repair storm-damaged homes and businesses.

 XII-3
Agriculture and Resource Related Industries District agriculture conditions have been mixed in recent months. Early rains and warm
temperatures created favorable California grassland conditions, benefiting the range cattle industry
and creating favorable conditions for the new planting season. However, declines in many
agricultural commodity prices combined with increasing production costs reportedly have caused
some farmers to delay purchases of new equipment and other discretionary inputs. Also, in
Northern California and Nevada heavy rains and flooding damaged some crops in fields and
orchards and forced ranchers to move livestock to higher, less attractive grazing areas.
Real Estate and Construction Residential and commercial real estate markets continued to be strong in most areas of the
District. In the Pacific Northwest and Intermountain states, strong demand for single-family
residences has resulted in considerable home price appreciation, although the pace of gains in the
Intermountain states slowed in recent months. In California, building in the state as a whole
continued to be weak. Within California, San Francisco and Silicon Valley continued to outpace
the rest of the state in the residential real estate market recovery with continued price appreciation
for single-family homes and declining vacancy rates for rental properties. Southern California's
housing market also showed signs of improvement in recent months, as home prices began to rise
and sales increased.
Financial Institutions District financial institutions generally reported that strong economic conditions continued
to boost loan demand. Despite increasing consolidation of banks, the lending environment was
said to remain highly competitive, both among banks and from non bank competitors.

