National Summary The Beige Book ■ May 2017 Overall Economic Activity Most of the twelve Federal Reserve Districts reported that their economies continued to expand at a modest or moder- ate pace from early April through late May. Boston and Chicago signaled that growth in their Districts had slowed somewhat to a modest pace since the prior Beige Book period, while New York indicated that activity had flattened out. Consumer spending softened with many Districts noting little or no change in nonauto retail sales, while auto sales have edged down from last year’s record highs in several Districts; tourism activity has continued to keep pace with the general economy. Meanwhile, the majority of Districts continued to report moderate growth in manufacturing activity and in most nonfinancial service sectors. Construction of new homes and nonresidential structures also continued to grow at modest to moderate rates, as did sales of existing homes; nonresidential leasing picked up a bit. Lending vol- ume trends tended to mirror (and support) the general activity of the economy. Agricultural conditions remained mixed with some regions negatively affected by unusually wet weather. Most energy sectors tended to modestly improve. A majority of Districts reported that firms expressed positive near-term outlooks; however, optimism waned somewhat in a few Districts. Employment and Wages Labor markets continued to tighten, with most Districts citing shortages across a broadening range of occupations and regions. Despite supply constraints impeding the ability of firms to attract and retain qualified workers, most Districts reported that employment continued to grow at a modest to moderate pace. Similarly, most firms across the Districts noted little change to the recent trend of modest to moderate wage growth, although many firms reported offering high- er wages to attract workers where shortages were most severe. A manufacturing firm in the Chicago District reported attracting better applicants and improving retention for its unskilled workforce by raising wages 10 percent. Prices On balance, pricing pressures were little changed from the prior report, with most Districts reporting modest increases. Rapidly rising costs for lumber, steel, and other commodities tended to push input costs higher for some manufacturers and the construction sector. In contrast, some Districts noted falling prices for certain final goods, including groceries, apparel, and autos. Energy prices and farm prices were mixed across products and among Districts. Low inventories of for-sale homes were pushing house prices higher in many markets.
Highlights by Federal Reserve District
Boston New York
Overall, economic growth was modest, with only one-half Economic activity has flattened out in recent weeks.
of retail and manufacturing contacts reporting year-over- Labor markets remained tight, and wages for skilled
year gains in revenue. Housing markets were strong workers have continued to grow moderately. Input cost
despite low inventories. Labor markets remained tight, pressures have remained fairly widespread, while selling
with employers facing limited supply. Price pressures prices have increased at a modest pace. Housing mar-
continued to be modest. The outlook remained positive, kets have been steady, on balance, while commercial
with a bit of added caution. real estate markets have been mixed. 1

 National Summary
Philadelphia St. Louis
Overall, economic activity continued to rise modestly. Economic activity has continued to increase at a modest
The pace of nonresidential construction and existing pace, and contacts continue to hold a generally optimis-
homes sales ticked up, while nonfinancial services tic outlook for overall activity for the remainder of 2017.
slowed. On balance, employment, wages, and prices Reports from auto dealers, however, indicate slowing
continued to grow modestly; however, wage pressures sales since our previous report; they expect this down-
were noted in some regions and for some occupations ward trend to continue into the third quarter.
— relieved at times by substituting capital for labor. Minneapolis
Cleveland Economic activity grew modestly. The professional ser-
Business activity generally expanded at a moderate vices, residential construction, manufacturing, energy,
pace. Labor markets tightened, with employers looking and mining sectors saw growth, while commercial and
to enhance benefits packages as a means of employee residential real estate activity declined slightly. Commer-
retention. Single-family home sales picked up after slow- cial construction increased in some regions but was flat
ing early in the first quarter. Motor vehicle production in others and slower in segments outside of multifamily
was down slightly, while orders for heavy equipment building. Employment and wages both saw moderate
rose. Businesses reported increasing selling prices more growth.
frequently due to rising input costs. Kansas City
Richmond Economic activity increased moderately. Manufacturing
Economic activity expanded modestly across a wide and real estate activity expanded at a moderate pace,
array of industries, and firms continued to add workers to and energy activity continued to increase modestly.
their payrolls. However, labor shortages persisted in Consumer spending rose at a modest pace, with a
most areas, keeping upward pressure on wages, while strong outlook for future growth. Agricultural conditions
hindering growth in some industries. The hard-hit coal remained generally weak due to subdued farm income
industry was recently buoyed by supply constraints in and continued low commodity prices.
Australia, where adverse weather temporarily idled coal
production facilities. Dallas Economic activity grew moderately, and outlooks re-
Atlanta mained positive. Retail sales accelerated slightly, despite
Economic activity modestly improved. The labor market some softness in auto sales. The energy sector saw
remained tight. Firms noted use of training programs to further improvement, partly supporting output growth in
attract and retain workers. An uptick in wage growth was manufacturing. Home sales continued to trend upward,
reported for high-demand positions. Retail sales were but there was continued softness at the higher end.
soft, however, sales of trucks and large vehicles re- Nonfinancial services activity expanded and loan de-
mained solid. Manufacturers noted increases in new mand increased.
orders and production. San Francisco
Chicago Economic activity continued to expand at a moderate
Growth slowed to a modest pace. Employment, business pace. Overall, price inflation was steady. The labor mar-
spending, and manufacturing production grew at a mod- ket tightened further, and wage pressures grew moder-
erate rate, while construction and real estate grew mod- ately. Sales of retail goods grew modestly, and growth in
estly and consumer spending decreased slightly. Prices the consumer and business services sectors remained
rose modestly. Conditions were little changed in the strong. Manufacturing activity picked up to a modest
financial and agricultural sectors. pace. Activity in the real estate sector remained strong. Lending activity grew moderately. 2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Boston The Beige Book ■ May 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Reports from business contacts in the First District were slightly less positive in mid-May than in early April or February.
The overall pace of growth was modest. Retail contacts were evenly divided between small declines and small increas-
es in sales from a year earlier. One-half of responding manufacturers reported year-over-year revenue gains, but most
of the others cited decreased sales. With one exception, staffing-firm contacts reported revenue declines, mostly reflect-
ing a dearth of applicants to fill their clients’ positions. Commercial real estate markets were mostly unchanged, with
stable leasing activity. Residential real estate markets were reportedly strong, despite low inventories. Labor markets
remained tight, and employers said wage increases were modest to moderate. Firms continued to report that price
pressures were modest. The outlook generally continued to be positive, although a bit less so than in the last round.
Employment and Wages confronting low inventories: Median sales prices of single
Respondents in several sectors mentioned tight labor family homes and condominiums increased year-over-
markets. None of our manufacturing contacts reported year across the board, with the exception of condos in
any significant hiring moves either up or down. A maker Vermont. With supplies dwindled and demand robust,
of envelopes said that they expected to hire significantly upward pressure on housing prices is expected to persist
in the near future but not right now. Several manufactur- across the First District.
ing contacts said it was hard to find qualified workers. A Retail and Tourism
manufacturer of semiconductors and related goods said Retail contacts consulted in mid-May reported that year-
that they had to raise starting wages to fill vacant posi- over-year comparable-store sales ranged from low-
tions in New England. A manufacturer of furniture said single-digit declines to low-single-digit gains. Furniture
that retaining new hires was a major challenge as some sales were said to have been unexpectedly soft. Other
workers quit within days of being hired. Staffing firms retailers attributed some of the weakness in sales to
continued to report strong labor demand and tight labor decreased customer traffic in brick-and-mortar stores.
supply. They singled out the following positions as partic- While some contacts said the outlook for the rest of 2017
ularly hard to fill: systems administrator, network engi- is a bit uncertain, most continued to expect that sales will
neer, and medical assistant. All contacted staffing firms end up growing by low single-digit percentages over the
indicated that bill and pay rates had increased. year.
Prices Manufacturing and Related Services
Price changes remained modest. Retail contacts contin- Of the eight firms contacted in mid-May, three reported
ued to report that input and selling prices were steady or lower sales, one reported flat sales, and the balance
increased slightly. Manufacturing contacts reported reported higher sales. Reasons for weakness were
modest pricing pressure. An industrial distributor said varied. A firm that makes envelopes attributed flat sales
that they had seen vendors successfully increase prices to uncertainty among its financial customers about future
for the first time in several years. Otherwise, manufactur- government policy. A chemical firm said greater exports
ing firms reported mixed changes of modest size in input from China were putting downward pressure on the price
and selling prices and no price surprises from vendors. of one important chemical and cutting into its internation-
Home prices increased, driven by strong buyer demand A-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Boston
al business. A firm that provides veterinary services apartment construction has shifted increasingly to the
indicated that patient visits were down due to the weath- suburbs. Commercial real estate activity was also stable
er. By contrast, an industrial distributor said that sales in Portland, with continued light leasing activity in the
were up year-on-year in April for the first time in two office market and strong demand from developers for
years. A manufacturer of lab equipment reported higher vacant industrial space and for the construction of hotels
sales but said that uncertainty about government policy and high-end urban condominiums. Contacts across the
was slowing demand. District reported that investment sales demand held steady while the supply of commercial properties for sale
No contacts reported revisions to capital spending plans. stayed flat or declined and was quite low in absolute
An aerospace and industrial distribution firm said that terms. Most contacts forecasted that market conditions
they had placed a convertible bond last week and there would stay the same or improve modestly going forward,
was strong demand. but the outlook remained less optimistic in Connecticut,
The outlook was generally positive but cautious. One which has seen flat employment in the past year and
contact said they initially attributed down sales earlier in faces a severe state budget deficit.
the year to the fact that the relevant comparison period,
the first quarter of 2016, was exceptionally strong, but Residential Real Estate
continued weakness has made them wonder. Several Residential real estate markets in the First District saw a
contacts expressed concern about policy uncertainty and strong start to spring. For single family homes, closed
said that was holding back spending. sales were up year-over-year from March 2016 to March 2017 in three of the six First District states, while pend-
Staffing Services ing sales increased year-over-year in every state but
All of the contacted staffing firms in New England saw Rhode Island. For condos, closed sales increased year-
revenues decline year-over-year for their temporary over-year in every state. A contact in Boston reported
placements, while one respondent saw an overall in- that “March is historically a telling month for how the
crease in revenue because of strong activity on the spring market is going; with positive sales numbers we
permanent placements side of the business. Although experienced last month and buyer demand we’re seeing,
one firm recently lost a big client and seeks to broaden it’s clear that we’re set for a very busy market.” Low
its listings, the revenue declines mostly reflect difficulty inventory continued to present challenges for buyers,
recruiting applicants. Firms are brainstorming and trying however, especially those purchasing a home for the first
new ways to recruit people to fill their clients’ jobs. Two time. Inventories fell on a year-over-year basis in every
firms are spending more money on recruitment. Two state. A Massachusetts contact noted that inventories
firms are working with non-profits to find and attract more have been at all-time lows for months and said “without
qualified employees. One firm hired an additional internal more inventory, prices will continue to rise and price
staff member who will focus on social media as a recruit- buyers out of the market.”
ment tool. Two firms raised their referral and signing Most contacts seemed optimistic about market activity
bonuses and one firm will pay college tuition for qualified and continued strong buyer demand, despite the strains
employees to receive a degree related to their job. Look- on inventory. Many noted that low unemployment has
ing forward, staffing firms are not as optimistic as they helped spur consumer confidence, which contributes to
were last quarter. the demand for residential real estate. ■
Commercial Real Estate
Commercial real estate markets were mostly flat in the
First District in recent weeks. In greater Hartford, office
leasing remained subdued as foot traffic slowed further.
In Boston, office leasing activity and vacancy rates were
said to be stable, but contacts reported that few firms
outside of the life sciences industry were expanding their
footprints. Some life sciences firms seeking to add space
in greater Boston have turned to converting vacant sub- For more information about District economic conditions visit:
urban office space into laboratory space. Also in the www.bostonfed.org/regional-economy
Boston area, office construction remained limited while A-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of New York The Beige Book ■ May 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Economic activity in the Second District has been essentially flat since the last report, while labor markets have re-
mained tight. Input price pressures have persisted, while selling prices have been steady to up modestly. Manufacturers
indicated that business activity has flattened out, while service-sector contacts have continued to report steady to mod-
estly expanding activity. Consumer spending has been flat since the last report, while consumer confidence has retreat-
ed from a multi-year high. Housing markets were mixed but, on balance, steady since the last report. Commercial real
estate markets were also mixed: office markets were mostly steady, industrial markets were steady to slightly stronger,
while retail markets weakened further. New construction activity has been sluggish across most of the District, on both
commercial and residential structures. Banks reported that loan demand was steady to stronger, while delinquency
rates declined.
Employment and Wages Prices
The labor market has remained tight. Contacts at em- Business contacts continued to note rising input costs
ployment agencies characterized the job market as but only modest increases in selling prices. Those in the
steady and fairly tight—especially for engineers and retail, wholesale, transportation, and leisure & hospitality
other tech workers, but also for skilled workers more industries reported modest increases in selling prices, on
generally. Two major New York City agencies character- balance, while businesses in other sectors indicated little
ized hiring as steady at a moderate level, while an up- changed in prices received.
state agency notes some pickup in the second quarter. General merchandise retailers reported that prices have
Manufacturers have continued to add jobs in recent been flat, and New York City hotels indicated that room
weeks, and employment is also reported to be on the rates have held steady. Broadway theaters, in contrast,
rise among businesses in education & health services, reported that average ticket prices have picked up no-
transportation, and finance. Businesses in other service ticeably in recent weeks and have been running roughly
industries report steady employment levels. Looking 15 percent above comparable 2016 levels.
ahead, firms in manufacturing and most service indus-
tries indicated that they expect employment to rise, on Consumer Spending Retailers reported that sales were steady to down mod-
balance, in the months ahead. erately. Retailers in upstate New York reported that
Contacts across all service industries reported moderate sales have been essentially flat in April and early May. A
wage growth and expect comparable increases to con- major retail chain noted that same-store sales fell below
tinue in the months ahead. Employment agency contacts plan and were down from a year earlier in April but have
in New York City noted a bit more upward pressure on picked up somewhat in May. Sales in New York City
wages and salaries—employers were said to be increas- slightly lagged the region overall. Inventories were gen-
ingly negotiable on pay, but mainly for highly sought- erally said to be at desired levels. Retail contacts have
after, skilled, and specialized workers. An upstate New become somewhat less optimistic about the near-term
York agency indicated that wages have held steady. sales outlook. B-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of New York
Auto dealers in upstate New York reported that sales of been essentially flat in New York City. Home resale
new and used vehicles softened in April and were lower activity across downstate New York, and especially in
than a year earlier—a trend seen continuing into early New York City, has slowed to more normal levels, follow-
May. One contact noted that inventories of some new, ing an unusually brisk first quarter. Prices of New York
mainly domestic, vehicles makes have swelled some- City co-ops and condos have remained mixed, rising at
what, though inventories generally remain at or near the low end, falling at the high end, and holding steady in
desired levels. Retail and wholesale credit conditions the middle. Inventories have continued to edge up in
were reported to be in good shape, though there has Manhattan but have fallen to exceptionally low levels
been further tightening for sub-prime auto loans. elsewhere—mostly notably in upstate New York and northern New Jersey.
Consumer confidence in the Middle Atlantic states (NY,
NJ, PA) retreated in April after reaching a 16-year high in Commercial real estate markets have been mixed in
March. recent weeks. The market for office space has generally been steady, as both availability rates and asking rents
Manufacturing and Distribution have not changed significantly. The industrial market,
Manufacturers reported that business activity has leveled which had been strengthening steadily over the past
off thus far in the second quarter, following brisk growth year, has lost some momentum in recent weeks but has
in the first three months of the year. Businesses in the continued to tighten. While availability rates have largely
wholesale trade and transportation industries also report- leveled off, rents have continued to climb, running 8-12
ed a pause in growth. Looking ahead, however, manu- percent ahead of a year earlier. In contrast, the market
facturers remain widely optimistic about the near-term for retail space has softened further: vacancy rates
outlook, while those in transportation and wholesale reached multi-year highs throughout the District, while
trade remain somewhat upbeat. asking rents were little changed.
Services Finally, both residential and commercial construction
Businesses in most service industries noted little change have remained sluggish overall. New starts of single-
in general business activity, while contacts in education family homes have remained subdued, while new multi-
& health services continued to indicate steady, moderate family construction has slowed substantially. On the
growth. Looking ahead, however, businesses in educa- commercial side, although there is a good deal of office
tion & health were generally the least sanguine about the construction in progress—especially in New York City—
outlook, while contacts in the information, professional & there has been very little new office development, except
business services, and leisure & hospitality industries in northern New Jersey.
were fairly optimistic. Banking and Finance
Tourism has picked up somewhat in New York City. Bankers reported stronger demand for consumer loans
Broadway theaters reported that business improved and residential mortgages but no change in demand for
noticeably in April and the first half of May, with attend- commercial loans or mortgages. Bankers also indicated
ance running roughly 10 percent ahead of 2016 levels that refinancing activity decreased for all types of loans.
and revenues up more than 25 percent. Credit standards were reported to be unchanged across
Real Estate and Construction all loan categories. Banks noted wider spreads of loan
Housing markets across the District have been mixed rates over cost of funds for consumer loans but no
but, on balance, steady since the last report. New York change in spreads for other loan categories. Contacts
City’s rental market has remained mostly steady, though also reported an increase in the average deposit rate, on
increased landlord concessions have further lowered net. Delinquency rates were said to be lower across all
effective rents and spurred some pickup in leasing, loan categories—particularly residential mortgages. ■
especially at the high end. In contrast, rents continued to
rise across northern New Jersey, the Lower Hudson
Valley, southwestern Connecticut and upstate New York.
The sales market for homes has strengthened in north- For more information about District economic conditions visit:
ern New Jersey and across upstate New York but has www.newyorkfed.org/data-and-statistics/regional-data- center/index.html B-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia The Beige Book ■ May 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Aggregate business activity in the Third District continued at a modest pace during the current Beige Book reporting
period. Manufacturing and homebuilding continued at a moderate pace of growth, but nonfinancial services appear to
have slowed to a modest pace. Nonresidential construction and existing homes sales picked up a bit, which is echoed
by changes in loan volumes to those sectors. On balance, employment, wages, and prices continued to grow at a mod-
est pace; however, tight labor markets are reported in some regions and for some occupations. Contacts noted that
some wage pressures have eased as firms substitute technology for labor. Overall, firms continued to expect moderate
growth over the next six months.
Employment and Wages Prices
Employment has continued at a modest pace of growth. Price pressures appeared to ease a bit, although on
Manufacturing firms reported increases in employment balance, levels continued to rise modestly. Nearly two-
and in the average hours worked compared to the prior thirds of firms’ contacts reported no change at all in
period. Employment indicators from nonmanufacturing prices paid and prices received. Of the remaining firms,
firms were mixed, as contacts noted fewer net additions more reported increases than decreases, but the differ-
to full-time staff, more net additions to part-time staff, ential has diminished. Homebuilders noted rapidly rising
and little change in hours. lumber costs due to recent tariffs imposed on Canadian lumber. Overall, the sales prices of existing homes rose
On balance, wage pressures continue to be muted; modestly, although this varied across markets and price
reports of tight labor markets are scattered by region and categories.
occupation. Contacts tend to note significant price in-
creases only in association with commodity price hikes Looking ahead one year, firms anticipate a 2.25 percent
that are more readily passed through to customers. increase in prices received for their own goods and
Several contacts from banking and finance noted that services — slightly higher than one quarter prior. Firms
wage pressures are real and rising but that firms in many also reported expectations of 2.50 percent annual infla-
sectors are using technology whenever possible to sub- tion for consumers — a bit lower than last winter.
stitute for labor. Manufacturing
Pennsylvania staffing firms have remained very busy On balance, manufacturers continued to indicate moder-
since the start of the year. Contacts from staffing firms in ate growth with higher percentages of firms reporting
labor markets with lower unemployment rates have increases in current activity and shipments this period
noted greater wage pressure, while contacts operating in compared with the prior period. However, new orders
markets with higher unemployment rates report minimal began to soften late in the current period.
wage pressure. C-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia
Overall, gains in activity were indicated by many major representative of a normal pace for the Third District.
sectors, including the makers of paper products, chemi- One large service-sector firm noted continued growth of
cals, fabricated metal products, and industrial machinery; its consumer base and improved credit behavior of its
some reductions of new orders and/or shipments were base; the firm also noted unexpected weakness from
noted by the makers of lumber products, primary metal part of its business-oriented sales. Expectations about
products, and electronic products. future growth have also abated since the prior Beige
While manufacturing contacts continued to expect Book period but have remained quite positive with nearly
growth over the next six months, the breadth of optimism 60 percent of the firms anticipating increased activity.
has narrowed. Less than half of the firms are now ex- Financial Services
pecting growth — down from two-thirds during the prior Financial firms reported modest growth of overall loan
period. Similarly, the expectations for future employment volumes (excluding credit cards) after relatively little
and capital expenditures also softened. change during the prior Beige Book period. Commercial
Consumer Spending real estate loans, residential mortgages, and auto loans
Nonauto retail contacts noted little sales growth and contributed the strongest growth in loan volume. Com-
expressed skepticism that rising consumer confidence mercial and industrial loan volumes were up slightly,
has had a significant, positive impact. In fact, one large while home equity loans were essentially flat. Credit card
retailer reported that “if anything, we feel like there has volumes are highly seasonal but have grown over the
been a little pullback from the lower-end consumer.” year at a modest rate and grew during this Beige Book
Moreover, retailers noted that consumers are shifting period at a faster rate than the change observed over the
their spending somewhat away from goods to dining and same period last year. Banking contacts continued to
experiences. That trend, plus the ongoing shift toward express cautious optimism for slow, steady growth.
online sales, continues to hemorrhage sales from brick- Real Estate and Construction
and-mortar stores. One large retailer stated that consum- Homebuilders continued to report moderate increases in
er confidence is a leading indicator that should result in traffic and contract signings and expressed concerns
increased sales but not until the second half of 2017. that the labor supply will not support higher levels of
On balance, auto dealers reported flat year-over-year construction activity. A South Jersey builder attributed
sales during the current period: Pennsylvania dealers the gains to greater confidence borne of increased jobs
reported that sales were up slightly, while New Jersey and income.
dealers reported that sales were down slightly relative to Brokers in most major Third District housing markets
last year’s high levels. New Jersey contacts did note a noted that existing home sales continued to strengthen
little pickup in early May. Generally, dealers expect from a slight pace of growth last period to a modest
another strong year of sales even if a bit below last increase this period. The spring selling season failed
year’s level. Manufacturing incentives are helping to again to trigger a significant influx of new inventory. In
sustain sales, but maintaining the same level of profita- some areas, rental market activity is increasing. Still,
bility is more of a struggle. brokers expect to end the year with somewhat higher
Tourism activity continued to grow at a modest pace, sales totals than last year.
according to several contacts. After a slower first quarter, Nonresidential real estate contacts covering much of the
several events lifted Philadelphia area hotel and restau- Third District reported modest growth, as the existing
rant activity to stronger levels. A Delaware shore contact high levels of construction activity broadened across
noted that bookings and rates are higher than last year sectors and geographically throughout the region. Over-
at hotels representing several price points. Even in At- all, leasing activity changed little, although contacts
lantic City, casino revenues are beginning to eke out noted that deals within the Philadelphia office market
slight increases on an ongoing year-over-year basis. were a bit below expectations until late in the current
Nonfinancial Services period. ■
Third District service-sector firms reported modest
growth in general activity — slowing a bit from the mod- For more information about District economic conditions visit:
erate pace of the prior period. Most indicators, especially www.philadelphiafed.org/research-and-data/regional-
new orders, suggested slower growth; however, all were economy C-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland The Beige Book ■ May 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Aggregate business activity expanded at a moderate pace in the Fourth District during the reporting period. Labor mar-
kets continued to strengthen, with wage pressure coming from both low- and high-skilled workers. Upward pressure on
input prices was prevalent in the construction and manufacturing sectors. Firms facing higher input prices frequently
reported that they were able to raise selling prices and billing rates. Consumer spending at brick-and-mortar establish-
ments rose slightly, while new motor vehicle sales strengthened. Manufacturing activity grew slightly, with a marked
improvement for heavy equipment producers. Freight volume continued to expand. After slowing early in the first quar-
ter, sales of new and existing single-family homes picked up. Activity in the commercial real estate market remains
elevated. Credit portfolios grew slightly on balance.
Employment and Wages struction and manufacturing contacts. Building contrac-
Payrolls grew across a broad range of industries, with tors noted higher material prices across the board, but
continuing wage pressures in some skilled occupations especially for Canadian softwood. Contractors expect a
and at the lower end of the pay scale. Staffing firms dramatic increase in lumber prices unless a tariff agree-
noted an increase in the number of job openings and ment is reached. Several contacts reported that con-
placements during the past two months, a situation struction subcontractors are constrained by a lack of
which they attributed to an improving business climate. qualified workers and are operating at capacity, resulting
Because of difficulties in attracting and retaining employ- in significantly higher price quotes. Manufacturers point-
ees, companies are placing a greater emphasis on ex- ed to rising steel prices as a primary factor driving up
panding benefits and work-life-balance initiatives, while their input costs. Manufacturers, homebuilders, and
at the same time increasing wages and salaries. Banking general building contractors experienced little pushback
contacts noted significant wage pressure for IT staff and when attempting to raise their selling prices. Freight
compliance personnel. High turnover remains an issue in haulers generally reported that their markets were able
the freight transportation industry. In order to retain to sustain higher freight rates in the low-single digits.
drivers, one firm increased driver pay by 3 cents per Grocery store shelf prices declined slightly.
mile, equating to a 7.5 percent wage increase. Attracting Consumer Spending
qualified applicants for low-skilled manufacturing jobs is Consumer spending at brick-and-mortar retailers rose
difficult, and many newly hired workers prove to be slightly during the period and was attributed to the rollout
unreliable. That said, competition for low-skilled workers of spring merchandise and promotional activity. Sales of
is strong and is driving up starting wages. household furnishings picked up, while electronics and
Prices apparel transactions were fairly soft. One chain reported
Similar to the previous reporting period, statements that liquidations and accelerated store closures by retail-
about rising input costs originated primarily among con- ers, who are rationalizing their brick-and-mortar footprint, are having an impact on foot traffic at malls. The contact D-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland
noted that with more dark stores, the appeal of a mall Activity across the commercial real estate sector remains
decreases, and this may create a downward spiral. Foot elevated. Increases were reported in transaction volume
traffic in grocery stores was flat. However, one chain and the average price per square foot for industrial and
reported that dollars spent per customer rose, so total office properties during the first quarter compared to
revenue was up slightly. Year-to-date sales through April prior-year results. Office vacancy rates declined, and
of new motor vehicles increased 3.5 percent compared asking rents increased, although both at a slow pace.
to those of the year-earlier period. Auto dealers are Nonresidential contractors reported that inquiries and
concerned about higher-than-normal inventories and backlogs remain strong. The highest demand is for com-
credit tightening for subprime buyers. A dealer group mercial property development, public infrastructure pro-
noted the group’s new vehicle inventory was at its high- jects, and education buildings.
est level since 2004. Financial Services
Industrial Production Bankers reported that their credit portfolios grew slightly
Activity in the manufacturing sector picked up slightly on balance since the last report. Although customer
during the period. Contacts noted rising output by pro- confidence remains high, that confidence has not yet
ducers of heavy equipment sold to other manufacturers. translated into additional commercial or retail lending. On
This market segment had reported flat to declining or- the commercial side, strongest demand is for CRE loans
ders since the beginning of the past recession. Suppliers and M&A financing. Contacts expect that the current
to the construction and food services industries said that level of activity in these segments will continue. Although
demand remains elevated. Demand for consumer pack- banks were still experiencing relative strength in auto
aged products was weaker than expected during the first lending and home equity products, several contacts
quarter, although demand was above year-ago levels. noted a small decline in consumer lending overall, espe-
First-quarter motor vehicle production at District plants cially for credit cards. Activity in mortgage lending ex-
declined when compared to that of the same time period panded slightly, mainly for new purchases. Contacts
a year earlier. Increased light truck production was insuf- noted little change in loan application standards and
ficient to offset larger declines in car production. Manu- delinquency rates.
facturers cited the strong dollar as the primary factor
tempering offshore sales. A growing number of produc- Nonfinancial Services
ers are increasing capital budgets. There was a notable Professional and business services firms generally re-
increase in the number of contacts who are allocating ported moderate levels of activity during the period.
monies for plant expansion. Strongest demand was seen by engineering services
The number of drilling rigs operating in the District con- and software and IT services firms. Factors contributing
tinued to trend higher, albeit at a slow pace. Natural gas to strong demand for software and IT include clients’
output remains at historic highs. High levels of coal concerns about cyber security and data protection and a
production were maintained because of rising demand transitioning by many companies from owning and man-
and reduced customer inventory. aging software to cloud computing. Freight volume expanded during the period, and this
Real Estate and Construction expansion was attributed to improving economic condi-
First-quarter unit sales of new and existing single-family tions. Increased demand was seen primarily from steel
homes increased almost 4 percent compared to those of producers and service centers and the energy sector. A
a year earlier. The average sales price rose 6 percent. majority of our contacts reported that they were able to
Homebuilders attributed stronger sales to an improving push through rate increases. ■
job market and rising prices for buyers’ existing homes.
Estimates of single-family construction starts during the
first quarter were much higher in Ohio compared to
those of a year earlier. Estimated starts in District re-
gions outside Ohio were flat or declining. The strongest
demand for new homes was found in the move-up and
high-end price point categories. Purchases by first-time
buyers declined markedly during the period. D-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond The Beige Book ■ May 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
The Fifth District economy expanded at a modest pace since the prior reporting period, with broad-based improvement
across industry sectors. Manufacturers continued to see strong new orders and increased output. Shipments through
District ports rose modestly, and reports on land and air freight were more positive. Retail sales growth picked up, on
balance, as did tourism-related spending. Housing market activity continued to increase, although supply-side con-
straints limited growth. Lending picked up moderately, mostly due to more strength in business loan demand. Non-
financial services firms reported moderately higher revenues. Coal production increased, in large part due to supply
disruptions in Australia, while agricultural conditions improved slightly. The District’s labor markets remained tight, and
businesses continued to report modest wage increases. Prices were reportedly stable to rising moderately.
Employment and Wages Manufacturing
Labor demand strengthened moderately in recent weeks Manufacturing firms continued to report strong growth in
amidst continued reports of worker shortages. Employ- new orders and shipments. Producers of machinery,
ment agencies reported a modest increase in new job plastics and rubber, metal, corrugated packaging, and
openings across all sectors, while executives in the food manufacturing noted stronger business conditions
services and retail industries noted increases in hiring. in recent weeks. Overall, global supplier delivery times
Generally, contacts reported labor shortages for comput- were unchanged, while some firms reported shorter
er scientists, computer engineers, data scientists, weld- domestic lead times. Expectations for the next six
ers, and technicians. Also, more manufacturers had months were generally optimistic, with firms anticipating
difficulty finding quality workers for technical roles. Wag- moderate increases in new orders and shipments.
es increased modestly for firms in most industries, and
employment agencies said that clients had started to Ports and Transportation
increase wages for positions that remained unfilled. The volume of shipments through District ports was generally robust and increased moderately, with contacts
Prices at some facilities indicating that shipments set new rec-
Prices were generally stable to rising modestly. Manu- ord highs again in March and April. Moreover, port exec-
facturers’ final goods prices continued to grow at a mod- utives indicated that both imports and exports continued
est rate, according to our most recent surveys; however, to rise, although the pace of exports growth slowed
increases in input goods prices outpaced those in final somewhat, on balance. Imports of consumer goods were
goods. Specifically, prices recently rose for stainless particularly robust, despite the struggles reported by
steel and corrugated paper. Services firms indicated that national brick and mortar retailers; and light vehicle
price growth remained modest, overall, with the retail exports continued to increase at a healthy pace. Truck-
sector reporting a slightly faster pace of growth than the ing firms reported seasonal increases in shipments, with
non-retail sector. Commercial real estate rents were modest gains compared to a year earlier. A rail operator
stable to increasing slightly. Residential real estate pric- said that volumes rose in recent weeks due in part to
es generally continued to rise modestly, with most of the more coal shipments to the ports. And a regional airport
growth coming from low to mid-priced homes. Beef and executive said that air freight was up strongly due to
chicken prices were up slightly while energy prices were healthy manufacturing activity in his region.
largely unchanged. E-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
Retail, Travel, and Tourism multifamily was nearing a saturation point. A lender in
Retail activity increased more quickly in April based on Washington, D.C. also mentioned some worries of over-
respondents’ assessment of sales and shopper traffic. building in the hospitality segment. Business lending
The manager of a home goods store said that sales increased modestly. Deposits by both consumers and
picked up in April as this Easter’s results exceeded those businesses rose moderately, according to a banker in
of a year earlier. An auto dealer in North Carolina noted North Carolina, as deposit rates moved slightly higher.
a dramatic upturn in business, while a dealer in West Credit quality was stable and credit standards were
Virginia saw a significant fall off in April following unusu- generally unchanged; however, a West Virginia banker
ally strong sales in March. noted slight tightening in certain commercial real estate categories, such as hospitality and retail.
An adventure camp facility in western Virginia reported
that bookings increased at a better-than-seasonal pace Non-Financial Services
from March to April. Demand for hotel rooms remained On balance, services firms indicated moderate revenue
strong in western North Carolina and the upstate region growth in our most recent survey. Telecommunication,
of South Carolina. In the outer banks of North Carolina, administrative, and hospital services were the most
summer bookings were running ahead of previous years. consistently positive sectors. A contact in South Carolina saw a surge in demand for customer service and general
Real Estate and Construction office administration services. Strong reports also came
Residential real estate sales increased moderately since from arts, entertainment, and amusement firms. A civil
the previous report. Sources reported stable levels of engineering company had an increase in new projects;
buyer traffic for new and existing single family homes, however, revenue was down slightly as competition
and expected steady buyer demand extending into early drove down bid prices. Meanwhile, a marketing execu-
summer. Inventories remained low with the quick ab- tive in Virginia noted a moderate decline in demand in
sorption of new homes, and average days on the market recent weeks.
decreased modestly. Brokers reported that demand for
condos increased at a steady pace; however limited Agriculture and Natural Resources
inventory left sales unchanged. Homebuilders reported a Energy markets improved modestly in recent weeks.
reduction in buyer incentives, while sales in highly desir- Coal production rose as supply constraints due to severe
able communities rose modestly. The lack of subcontrac- weather phenomena in Australia led to stronger global
tors continued to push back construction timelines and demand for domestically produced coal (both steam and
limit new home starts. metallurgical). Coal mining firms anticipate making capi- tal investments in the near future if production and prices
On balance, commercial real estate leasing rose moder- hold up. Agriculture conditions also improved slightly,
ately. Retail leasing and sales remained strong, while particularly for beef and dairy farmers. In South Carolina,
office and industrial activity slowed modestly as invento- cotton and peanut planting was slightly behind schedule
ry remained limited. Land sales for new construction due to rain. ■
were steady, with continued robust pipelines. Contacts
noted increased remodeling activity of grocery-anchored
developments across the District. Rental rates increased
moderately in most industrial, retail, and office markets.
Retail development remained steady, while agents re-
ported limited office and industrial construction. Multifam-
ily building continued at moderate levels; however a few
lenders noted that fewer new developments were being
approved for financing.
Banking and Finance
Lending improved moderately since our previous report.
Demand for residential mortgages was little changed on
balance; however, demand picked up moderately in the
District of Columbia. Residential refinance activity was
stable to increasing modestly. Commercial real estate
demand continued to expand at a moderate to robust For more information about District economic conditions visit:
pace although some contacts expressed concerns that www.richmondfed.org/research/regional_economy E-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta The Beige Book ■ May 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Sixth District business contacts reported economic activity continued at a modest pace from April through mid-May. The
outlook among contacts remains optimistic with most firms expecting growth to accelerate over the next three to six
months. District firms continued to report difficulties filling a range of positions, and wage growth remained steady. Non-
labor input cost pressures were subdued. On balance, District merchants reported no change in sales since the previ-
ous report; however, auto dealers indicated sales of light trucks and SUVs continued to improve. The tourism sector
noted some softening in activity. According to residential real estate contacts, new and existing home sales were up,
and home prices modestly appreciated compared with a year ago. New home construction increased since the previous
report. Commercial real estate contacts noted demand continued to improve. While overall nonresidential construction
increased from a year ago, multifamily construction showed some signs of slowing. Manufacturing purchasing managers
cited increases in new orders and production.
Employment and Wages still indicated limited ability to raise prices. According to
While some contacts noted that demand for mid- to high- the Atlanta Fed’s Business Inflation Expectations survey,
skilled professional and business service positions had year-over-year unit costs were up 1.8 percent in May.
moderated, many continued to describe a tightening Survey respondents indicated they expect unit costs to
labor market among information technology, skilled craft rise 2.0 percent over the next twelve months.
and technical, and increasingly in entry-level positions, Consumer Spending and Tourism
particularly in hospitality and food services. Many con- On balance, District retail contacts reported that sales
tractors and manufacturers from construction-related levels remained flat since the last report. Retailers noted
fields continued to report that their inability to find quali- that consumers were cautious about their discretionary
fied workers was impeding growth. Contacts from the spending and expect modest increases in spending over
energy industry mentioned that the lack of available the summer months. Sales of light trucks SUVs in-
skilled craft labor was a roadblock to petrochemical- creased in April, according to auto dealers.
related construction. In response to labor shortages and
rising turnover, a growing number of firms indicated that Sentiment among tourism and hospitality contacts
they were directing resources towards creating internal across the District remains cautiously optimistic. Reports
training and development programs for both new hires noted an increase in the number of visitors in the first
and existing staff, covering technical education as well four months of the year compared to the same time
as company culture and soft skills. Firms also continued period last year. However, contacts noted that the pace
to mention workforce development partnerships, appren- of food, beverage, and merchandise spending from
ticeships, early education training, and dual enrollment visitors slowed since the last report, a trend that is ex-
programs at high schools. Wage growth remained stable pected to persist for the remainder of the year.
with exceptions in high-growth areas and in high-
demand trades. Construction and Real Estate Reports from District residential real estate contacts in
Prices April signaled continued growth. Most builders noted that
Non-labor input costs remained muted in general; how- construction activity was up from the year-ago level.
ever, manufacturing purchasing managers continued to Many brokers and builders reported an increase in home
note greater increases in commodity prices. Contacts sales relative to one year earlier. The majority of builder and broker contacts said buyer traffic was up from the F-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
previous year’s level. Residential contacts noted that Lenders increased oversight of construction loans and
inventory levels were unchanged or down compared to were growing more cautious in multi-family lending.
the year-ago level. Both builders and brokers indicated
modest gains in home prices. Home sales expectations Energy
were positive, with most brokers and builders anticipat- Reports from energy contacts indicated that rising shale
ing sales will increase slightly over the next three months production created new pipeline projects to transport oil
relative to the year-earlier level. Most builders expect and gas to refining centers on the Gulf Coast. Contacts
construction activity to hold steady at the current pace or also indicated that oil and gas inventories remained
increase slightly over the next three months. elevated despite increased demand. Utility industry contacts across the District reported that demand in
Many District commercial real estate contacts reported industrial and residential usage increased slightly while
improvements in demand that have resulted in rent commercial demand declined.
growth and increased absorption, but the rate of im-
provement varied by metropolitan area, submarket, and Agriculture
property type. The majority of commercial contractors Agriculture conditions across the District were mixed. By
indicated that the pace of nonresidential construction early-May, overall drought conditions had improved in
activity had risen from one year ago, with many reporting Louisiana, Mississippi, and Tennessee while Alabama,
increasing backlogs. While most reports indicated that Georgia, and Florida reported sizeable areas of drought
the pace of multifamily construction matched or exceed- conditions ranging from abnormally dry to extreme. The
ed the year-ago level, a growing share of contacts re- May forecast for Florida oranges was up slightly from
ported that multifamily construction is down. Looking April but remained considerably lower than last season’s
forward, the majority of District commercial construction production. District cotton, soybean, rice, and peanut
contacts expect nonresidential construction activity to plantings in early May were ahead of the five-year aver-
increase in the second quarter, while expectations for age, with the exception of Tennessee’s cotton and soy-
the pace of multifamily construction was mixed. bean crops and Florida’s peanut crop, which were mod- estly below their five-year averages. On a year-over-year
Manufacturing basis, prices paid to farmers in March were up for cotton,
District manufacturers continued to indicate that overall soybeans, and broilers but remained down for corn, rice,
business activity remained strong. New orders and pro- beef, and eggs. ■
duction levels increased at a solid pace and purchasing
agents reported that supply delivery times were persis-
tently getting longer. The outlook for future production
remained optimistic, with just over half of firms expecting
higher production levels over the next six months.
Transportation
District transportation contacts indicated that demand
was largely consistent with the previous report. Rail
activity, including intermodal, remained relatively flat.
District ports noted further strength in shipments of con-
tainers, automobiles, and breakbulk cargo. Trucking
companies cited increased movements of construction-
related materials, and logistics contacts reported contin-
ued growth in ecommerce shipments. Roughly half of
contacts expect higher levels of activity in the second
half of the year.
Banking and Finance
Credit remained readily available for most qualified bor-
rowers, although some small businesses continued to
experience difficulty obtaining loans. Contacts noted that
regulatory capital requirements constrained commercial
and construction lending at some banks, and most com-
mercial lending activity revolved around refinancing. For more information about District economic conditions visit: www.frbatlanta.org/economy-matters/regional-economics F-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago The Beige Book ■ May 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Growth in economic activity in the Seventh District slowed to a modest pace in April and early May. Respondents’ out-
looks for growth over the next 6 to 12 months also pulled back some, but remained positive on balance. Employment,
business spending, and manufacturing production grew at a moderate rate, while construction and real estate grew
modestly and consumer spending decreased slightly. Prices rose modestly. Conditions were little changed in the finan-
cial and agricultural sectors.
Employment and Wages Consumer Spending
Employment growth remained at a moderate rate over Consumer spending decreased slightly overall in April
the reporting period, and contacts expected it to continue and early May. Non-auto retail sales levels were flat, with
at this pace over the next six to twelve months. Contacts strong growth in e-commerce balancing out declines for
continued to report that the labor market was tight and brick and mortar stores. Nevertheless, contacts contin-
that it was difficult to fill positions at any skill level. Hiring ued to expect stronger sales in the summer months.
was focused on professional and technical, sales, and Sales of new light vehicles slowed some, and automaker
production workers, and there was an increase in the and dealer contacts reported that they had revised down
number of contacts hiring sales and production workers. expected sales for the calendar year. In contrast, con-
A staffing firm that primarily supplies manufacturers with tacts reported an increase in sales of used vehicles.
production workers reported an increase in billable hours
after more than a year of little change. Wage growth was
modest overall, with increases more likely for high-skilled Business Spending
occupations. That said, a manufacturing firm that was Growth in business spending picked up to a moderate
expanding raised wages for unskilled workers 10% and pace in April and early May. Many retailers indicated that
noted a significant improvement in retention and the their inventories were slightly elevated, while a number
quality of applicants. A number of contacts reported a of auto dealers thought their stocks were much too high.
rise in benefits costs. Manufacturing inventories were generally at desired levels, with the exception of those at steel service cen- ters, which continued to be low. Growth in capital ex-
Prices penditures picked up to a moderate pace, and contacts
Prices again rose modestly overall in April and early expected growth to continue at a moderate pace over
May. That said, retail prices changed little in general, the next six to twelve months. Outlays were primarily for
though prices fell some at grocery stores. Materials costs replacing industrial and IT equipment. Shipping volumes
were generally little changed over the reporting period, increased slightly.
though a number of contacts noted that prices of many
commodities were higher than they were six months ago. G-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago
Construction and Real Estate Agriculture
Construction and real estate activity increased modestly The outlook for crop income was unchanged through
on balance over the reporting period. Residential build- April and early May despite wet weather slowing planting
ing rose moderately, led by growth in the single-family in much of the District. Corn and soybean planting was
segment. The pace of home sales was little changed, but behind the pace of a typical year, and in some areas wet
prices increased moderately, as multiple contacts report- - and cold-spells killed crops that had already been
ed a limited supply of homes. Demand for nonresidential planted. Corn and soybean prices were up slightly.
construction increased slightly, with improvements con- Incomes for dairy farmers deteriorated a bit on balance.
centrated in the industrial sector. The pace of commer- Some dairy operations in the District scrambled to find
cial real estate activity also increased slightly, with gains alternative buyers after new restrictions on imports of
in both the for-lease and for-sale segments. Contacts in ultrafiltered milk into Canada cut demand for U.S. milk.
the Chicago area believed that the market was cooling Incomes for hog and cattle operations improved as pric-
some, while a contact in West Michigan indicated that es increased in spite of ample supply. Michigan fruit
the market was the strongest it has been for some time. growers faced increased uncertainty after a major freeze
Commercial rents edged up, as vacancy rates and the potentially damaged their plants. ■
availability of sublease space decreased a bit.
Manufacturing
Manufacturing production again grew at a moderate rate
in April and early May, and growth was widespread
across sectors. Demand for steel continued to grow at a
moderate pace, as contacts reported strong demand
from auto manufacturers and improving demand from
the energy and heavy machinery industries. Heavy ma-
chinery manufacturers themselves reported increased
demand, led by the energy sector. Specialty metals
manufacturers also reported growing order books, and
contacts highlighted new orders from the defense and
energy sectors. Manufacturers of construction materials
continued to report slow increases in shipments, in line
with the pace of improvement in construction. Production
in the auto and aerospace sectors was unchanged, but
remained at high levels.
Banking and Finance
Banking and financial conditions were largely unchanged
over the reporting period. Financial market participants
reported stable market conditions and low volatility.
Business loan demand was up slightly, credit quality
remained strong, and contacts reported declining delin-
quencies in the oil and gas sector. Consumer loan de-
mand was steady on balance, though credit quality de-
clined slightly. Residential mortgage activity increased,
with contacts noting more originations and home equity
loans. One contact said that the low supply of homes for
sale was leading to increased interest in home construc-
tion loans. Credit card volume was steady, though delin-
quencies ticked up. Auto loan demand declined slightly. For more information about District economic conditions visit: chicagofed.org/cfsbc G-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis The Beige Book ■ May 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Economic conditions have continued to expand at a modest pace since our previous report. District labor market condi-
tions continue to improve, with modest employment growth and moderate growth in wages. Reports from retail contacts
paint a mixed picture on consumer spending, with signs of weakening auto sales but positive reports from non-auto
contacts. Manufacturing contacts generally reported increases in new orders. Real estate contacts reported that low
inventories and higher construction costs continue to reduce home sales and push up prices, while banking contacts
reported strong growth in the demand for mortgages. In general, business contacts surveyed in mid-May continued to
hold an optimistic outlook for growth in 2017. On net, 55 percent of contacts expect District economic conditions in 2017
to be better or somewhat better than last year. This outlook was generally unchanged since contacts were surveyed in
mid-February.
Employment and Wages sumers and non-labor input costs increased moderately.
Employment has increased modestly since the previous Contacts reported prices and non-labor costs were
report. Of the business contacts surveyed in mid-May, slightly higher or higher than a year ago. Contacts also
on net, 31 percent reported that second-quarter employ- reported that healthcare costs have increased
ment was higher or slightly higher than a year ago and moderately.
40 percent expect third-quarter employment to be higher House prices increased moderately. Real estate con-
or slightly higher than a year ago. Contacts continued to tacts reported that high costs of residential construction
report difficulties finding skilled or motivated employees. are pushing house prices higher and lack of construction
Construction contacts in St. Louis, Louisville, and Mem- labor is pushing up costs of commercial construction
phis reported shortages of workers, with a contact in projects. Contacts reported increasing costs of raw ma-
Louisville noting that the shortage has affected their terials. In particular, prices of lumber, concrete, and
ability to complete work. sheetrock have increased more than expected.
Contacts reported moderate wage growth since the Contacts in the agriculture sector in Memphis and St.
previous report. On net, 61 percent of contacts reported Louis reported that lower crop prices continued to nega-
wages and labor costs were higher or slightly higher than tively affect their business. Since the previous report,
a year ago; however, a slightly smaller share expect cash prices of wheat and corn decreased moderately.
increases in the third quarter. Contacts in construction, However, prices for sorghum and cotton have increased
manufacturing, and banking reported increasing wages moderately and the price of soybeans increased slightly,
to retain and attract employees. However, a contact in while rice and coal prices did not change.
Louisville noted that a shortage of workers in information
technology has not resulted in increased wages. In Consumer Spending
addition, depressed agriculture prices have kept wage Reports from general retailers, auto dealers, and hotel-
increases to a minimum in eastern Arkansas. iers portray a mixed picture of consumer spending activi- ty. General retailers reported moderate sales growth,
Prices although contacts in Arkansas and Missouri reported
Price pressures in the District were moderate. Business year-over-year declines in April sales tax collection. Sixty
contacts surveyed reported that prices charged to con- -three percent of surveyed auto dealers reported a re- H-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
duction in year-over-year sales halfway through the pact from a slight decrease in mortgage rates.
second quarter. On net, 50 percent expect this negative Residential construction improved modestly since the
growth to continue into the next quarter. Hospitality previous report. On net, 40 percent of contacts reported
contacts in St. Louis and Louisville indicated a modest a slight increase in residential construction relative to the
increase in business activity after a slow first quarter. same time last year and about the same fraction expect
Manufacturing this trend to continue through the third quarter.
Manufacturing activity has increased at a moderate pace Commercial real estate activity has also improved mod-
since our previous report. Several companies across a estly since the previous report. Contacts continued to
broad range of industries reported capital expenditure indicate an increase in demand for both office and indus-
and facility expansion plans, including firms that manu- trial properties compared with the same time last year.
facture textiles, nonmetallic mineral products, transporta- Meanwhile, most contacts reported no change or a slight
tion equipment, and food products. In a recent survey, increase in multifamily property demand and no change
contacts reported continued improvement in manufactur- or a slight decrease in retail property demand.
ing conditions. The majority reported that production,
new orders, and capacity utilization increased in the Commercial construction activity remained robust. Local
second quarter relative to one year ago. The results are construction contacts reported relatively no change to
generally unchanged from our previous survey in mid- demand across most property types. Some contacts
February. Contacts were generally optimistic about the noted an increase in multifamily and industrial building.
third quarter, with 65 percent, on net, expecting further Banking and Finance
growth in production, new orders, and capacity utiliza- Banking conditions continued to strengthen at a moder-
tion. Despite the optimistic outlook, some contacts ex- ate pace, driven primarily by strong growth in demand for
pressed concerns about regulatory uncertainty and the business and mortgage loans. Demand for auto loans
difficulty of finding employees. was flat over the period and is expected to remain level
Nonfinancial Services over the coming quarter, while overall loan demand is
Reports from the service sector have been positive since expected to grow at a moderate rate. The creditworthi-
the previous report. More than two-thirds of transporta- ness of applicants for agriculture loans worsened for a
tion and service contacts reported that sales met or third straight quarter; credit standards for agricultural
exceeded expectations in the current quarter. On net, 25 lending increased relative to a year ago and are ex-
percent of contacts expect sales to be higher in the next pected to continue tightening in the near term.
quarter than they were at that time last year. Firms that Agriculture and Natural Resources
provide transportation, utility, and information technology Agriculture conditions deteriorated significantly due to
services reported plans to expand facilities and hire flooding across the District. Mid-May percentages of corn
employees. Reports from healthcare firms remain mixed. and rice crops rated fair or better were down or un-
One major hospital announced layoffs in the Louisville changed from a year ago in every state for which data
area, citing uncertainty around healthcare reform and were reported. Flooding and rain also slowed planting,
low patient volumes. Another healthcare provider cited with planned acreage planted for corn, cotton, rice, and
high costs as a reason for lower-than-expected sales soybeans each below the percentages of the previous
over the past quarter. Other healthcare providers in year. Cotton was the farthest off last year’s planting
Louisville and Memphis announced expansions. pace.
Real Estate and Construction Natural resource extraction conditions improved modest-
Residential real estate activity has declined modestly ly from the previous report and year. Seasonally adjust-
since the previous report. Home sales remained flat or ed coal production growth was up slightly from March to
decreased in the District’s largest metro areas. Several April, and April production was also 14 percent above
contacts reported that significant shortages in inventory last year’s level. ■
have hindered sales, particularly in Louisville, as single-
family demand has continued to be strong. Local inven-
tory levels are mostly expected to decline further in the For more information about District economic conditions, visit:
coming months. Some contacts noted a beneficial im- www.research.stlouisfed.org/regecon/ H-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis The Beige Book ■ May 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
The Ninth District economy grew modestly overall since the last report. Employment grew moderately, tempered by poor
labor availability. Wage pressure was moderate to strong, while price pressure was modest. The District economy
showed growth in professional services, construction, manufacturing, energy, and mining. Consumer spending and tour-
ism were mixed, while residential and commercial real estate activity declined slightly, and agriculture remained weak.
Employment and Wages Wage pressure was moderate to strong since the last
Employment grew moderately since the last report, report. An ad hoc survey of professional services firms in
tempered by poor labor availability. Initial unemployment Minnesota found that average wages were expected to
claims dropped by 16 percent over the most recent six- rise about 3 percent in 2017. Anecdotally, contacts said
week period compared with a year earlier, and average wages were increasing up to 3 percent, with
continuing claims dropped by 11 percent. April some technical and health care jobs receiving wage
employment figures were strong, and contacts reported increases closer to 5 percent. In Michigan’s Upper
healthy labor demand. Job openings were growing in the Peninsula, construction workers were seeing 3 percent
oil-producing area of North Dakota, including for jobs to 4 percent wage increases. A distribution center in
outside energy production. A Minnesota staffing contact southern Minnesota was hiring again and raised starting
said, “We can’t keep up. I have to say no to clients wages to $17.50 per hour, the third consecutive annual
regularly – there is strong demand from our clients for rise in starting wages, according to a local contact. In
talent,” but a lack of available workers. A job fair in western Montana, wages were trending upward, but
exurban Minneapolis-St. Paul saw employer booths sold more modestly because “employers tend to tout benefits
out for the second straight year and a “much longer” wait and working conditions more than wages.”
list for booths. A job-fair contact in Missoula, Mont., said Prices
job openings were plentiful and employers were more Price pressure was modest since the last report. Just
anxious to fill openings, with some spot hiring. In over half of respondents to a Minneapolis Fed survey of
northern Minnesota, “some businesses are suggesting District businesses reported that input costs had
they may have to cut back in services if they cannot find increased slightly compared with a year earlier, while 40
more workers,” said a regional source. Another said it percent said costs were unchanged. An electrical utility
was “constantly” trying to fill 30 open positions among a in Minnesota announced plans to raise residential rates
workforce of 250. However, there were a number of 2.7 percent this year, about half as much as it increased
layoffs, including 200 at a distribution center, 232 at a rates last year; a Montana electrical utility also
business services firm, and 250 from an insurer, all in announced that it was reducing rates. Most prices
Minnesota. Numerous government agencies also received by farmers decreased in March from a year
announced labor cutbacks, though many were through earlier, with the exception of soybeans, milk, chickens,
attrition. and hogs. I-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis
Consumer Spending and Tourism Billings, Mont., and St. Cloud., Minn. Home building
Consumer spending across the District was mixed since remained lower among North Dakota metros.
the last report. Car dealers from Rapid City, S.D., Commercial real estate declined slightly since the last
reported that used car sales rose by as much as 25 report, though from strong levels. Retail and office
percent, but new car sales remained flat over the past vacancy rates in Minneapolis-St. Paul ticked higher,
six months. Elsewhere in South Dakota, sales tax while industrial rates remained unchanged. Commercial
revenues were down by 1 percent, indicating a slight real estate transactions also slowed slightly. Thanks to
downturn in consumer spending in the state. A national significant new construction, hotel occupancy rates in
shoe store chain was closing eight stores across the Minnesota were expected to decline, leading to a drop in
Ninth District due to bankruptcy. Benefitting from healthy average room rates by the end of the year, contacts
home construction in Minnesota, a tile-supply chain store said. Residential real estate slowed, much of it
saw first-quarter sales increase by 9 percent from the reportedly due to low inventory. April home sales were
previous year. lower in the Flathead region of Montana, as well as in
Tourism conditions were mixed since the previous northern and western Wisconsin counties. In many
report. Canadian tourists decreased across Ninth District cases, slow April sales followed strong March sales. In
states, which tourism officials attributed to the exchange Minnesota, March home sales rose 8 percent, only to fall
rate. However, tourists from China and across the United by 11 percent in April. In Sioux Falls, April sales fell 11
States continued to show up in record numbers to percent after jumping 18 percent in March, but April
national parks in Montana. With high levels of snow still median prices there were up 6 percent from a year
on the mountains of Montana, ski resorts reported record earlier, according to an industry source. “Buyer demand
numbers of visitors. has not abated, nor is it expected to in the immediate future.”
Services
Professional services activity was up modestly. A Manufacturing
scanning technology firm saw increased business, due in District manufacturing activity increased modestly since
large part to increased activity in construction and the last report. An index of manufacturing conditions
engineering. A law firm with offices across the Ninth produced by Creighton University indicated increased
District reported increased business associated with activity in April compared with a month earlier in
security risks and concerns. An electronic health records Minnesota and the Dakotas. Respondents to an annual
software firm witnessed an uptick in business since the survey of Minnesota manufacturers indicated the highest
last report. level of confidence in the 10-year history of the survey. A truck trailer manufacturer was expanding into a recently
Construction and Real Estate shuttered boat factory in Minnesota. However, a plant
Construction activity was up modestly since the last that produces matches was shut down in Minnesota, and
report. An industry count of total nonresidential a producer of residential construction materials delayed
construction projects in the District showed an increase plans to open a new plant.
compared with the same period a year earlier, including
a notable increase in local government projects. Agriculture, Energy and Natural Resources
Commercial permitting in April rose in Fargo, N.D., Sioux District agricultural conditions remained weak since the
Falls, S.D., and Rochester, Minn., but was flat in other previous report because of continued low commodity
regions, and declined in Minneapolis and Rapid City. prices. However, growing conditions have improved.
Strong multifamily housing development continued in After heavy rains slowed early planting, progress as of
many District markets. But construction in other mid-May was roughly on par with five-year averages in
commercial sectors was slower, according to industry most District states. Activity in the energy and mining
contacts, particularly in Minneapolis-St. Paul. Residential sectors increased. District oil and gas drilling as of mid-
building, on the other hand, strengthened since the last May increased slightly from a month earlier. A Montana
report. Sizable increases in the number of permitted, gold mine announced plans to expand, and a Minnesota
single-family homes in April occurred in Minneapolis-St. iron mine began producing a new ore output. ■
Paul, Rochester, and Missoula, with smaller increases in I-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City The Beige Book ■ May 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Economic activity in the Tenth District continued to increase moderately in April and early May, and most sectors ex-
pected continued growth in future months. Professional, high-tech, and transportation firms reported a strong increase in
sales, and manufacturing activity expanded at a moderate pace. District real estate activity rose moderately, and con-
sumer spending contacts reported a modest increase in sales. District energy activity also expanded modestly com-
pared to the previous survey period, and bankers reported steady overall loan demand, stable deposit levels, and a
slight decline loan quality. Agricultural credit conditions remained weak, with subdued farm income and continued low
commodity prices. Employment and employee hours continued to increase at a modest pace in late April and May, and
contacts in most sectors reported moderate wage growth. Input prices were up slightly over the previous survey period,
while selling prices held steady in most sectors.
Employment and Wages steady, and contacts expected additional price increases
Overall District employment and employee hours contin- in the months ahead. Respondents in the retail sector
ued to increase at a modest pace in late April and May, reported modestly higher input and selling prices, with
and expectations were positive for the coming months. both expected to rise moderately moving forward. Res-
Contacts in the retail, wholesale trade, transportation, taurant input prices were up slightly, while selling prices
professional and high-tech, real estate, tourism, and held steady. In the transportation sector, input prices
manufacturing sectors noted an increase in employment edged up and selling prices were stable. Construction
over the previous survey period, while contacts in the prices rose moderately, and expectations were for mod-
auto, health services, and restaurant industries noted a erate price increases in the coming months. Manufactur-
decline. All sectors except auto, restaurants, and tourism ers reported slight growth in prices for finished goods,
reported positive expectations for employment in the and raw material costs continued to edge higher. Manu-
coming months. Average employee hours for the ser- facturers anticipated modest increases in both finished
vices sector rose modestly over the previous survey goods and raw material prices over the next few months.
period, and the manufacturing sector saw a slight decline Consumer Spending
but was on par with year-ago levels. Average employee Consumer spending activity continued to rise modestly,
hours’ expectations for both the services and manufac- while expectations for future growth increased at a
turing sectors were positive. Respondents noted a short- strong pace. Retail sales expanded slightly over the
age of commercial drivers, skilled technicians, and ser- previous survey period and were moderately above year-
vice workers. ago levels. Several retailers noted an increase in sales
Contacts in most sectors reported moderate wage for outdoor and sale items, while luxury products sold
growth, and anticipated continued moderate wage poorly. Contacts anticipated sales to rise strongly in the
growth in the coming months. next few months, and inventory levels were expected to moderate. Auto sales fell modestly but were above year-
Prices ago levels. Dealer contacts anticipated a strong increase
Overall, input prices were up slightly compared to the in sales for the months ahead. Auto inventories were
prior survey period, while selling prices rose or held expected to remain mostly flat heading forward. Restau- J-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City
rant sales fell moderately but were above year-ago lev- consumer installment loans. While most bankers report-
els. Contacts expected a strong rebound in activity head- ed stable demand for commercial real estate loans, a
ing forward. District tourism activity increased moderate- relatively higher proportion than other types indicated
ly and remained above year-ago levels. Tourism con- increasing demand. Most bankers indicated loan quality
tacts expected strong activity heading into the summer was unchanged compared to a year ago, although nearly
months. one third reported a slight decline in quality. In addition, most respondents expected loan quality to remain es-
Manufacturing and Other Business Activity sentially the same over the next six months. Credit
Manufacturing activity expanded at a moderate pace in standards remained largely unchanged in all major loan
April and early May, and most other business contacts categories. Finally, a majority of respondents reported
reported increased sales. Manufacturers reported contin- stable deposit levels.
ued modest growth in production, particularly for metals,
machinery, and aircraft products. Shipments, new or- Energy
ders, and order backlogs expanded slightly, and activity District energy activity expanded modestly compared to
was modestly higher than a year ago. Manufacturers’ the prior survey period, and expectations remained
capital spending plans were mostly positive, and firms’ positive. The announcement by OPEC and Russia to
expectations for future activity remained favorable. maintain production quotas through early 2018 was seen as contributing toward rebalancing the oil oversupply.
Outside of manufacturing, professional, high-tech, and The number of active oil and gas drilling rigs continued
transportation firms reported strong sales increases, to increase, particularly in Oklahoma. Some respondents
while wholesale trade contacts indicated a smaller in- commented that mostly stable prices have helped pro-
crease in sales than the previous survey. All firms ex- mote increased drilling activity, but they continued to
pected a moderate improvement in sales in the next six closely monitor the effects of price changes on budgets.
months. Professional, high-tech, and wholesale trade Contacts also reported further slight increases in ser-
firms reported strong capital spending plans, while trans- vices costs for well completions.
portation firms anticipated more modest growth in capital
expenditures heading forward. Agriculture Persistently weak farm income continued to weigh on the
Real Estate and Construction District’s farm economy and agricultural credit condi-
District real estate activity rose at a moderate pace since tions. District contacts reported that wheat and corn
the previous survey period, and contacts expected addi- prices remained below profitable levels. Soybean prices
tional gains moving forward. Residential home sales and were also lower than in the previous year, but remained
prices were slightly higher than year-ago levels and mostly profitable. Cattle prices increased since the previ-
expectations were for continued growth. Sales of low- ous reporting period and feedlots reported a modest
and medium-priced homes outpaced sales of higher- increase in profits. However, adverse weather and wild-
priced homes. Inventories in residential housing were fires in the western portion of the District reduced pro-
moderately below year-ago levels, but expectations were duction expectations for cattle and wheat in the region.
for a modest increase in the months ahead. Activity in More generally, bankers in the western portion of the
residential construction increased at a moderate pace as District reported a sharper decline in farm income and
new home sales, housing starts, and inventories rose. credit conditions than bankers in the eastern portion.
Commercial real estate activity continued to increase at Overall, District bankers continued to report weaker
a modest pace over the previous survey period as va- repayment rates on agricultural loans and an increase in
cancy rates declined and absorption, completions, con- borrowers with carry-over debt. ■
struction, sales, prices and rents rose. The commercial
real estate sector was expected to increase at a modest
pace in the coming months.
Banking
Bankers reported steady overall loan demand for the
period from April through early May. A majority of re-
spondents indicated a steady demand for commercial For more information about District economic conditions visit:
and industrial, residential real estate, agricultural and www.KansasCityFed.org/Research/RegionalEconomy J-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas The Beige Book ■ May 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
The Eleventh District economy continued to expand at a moderate pace over the past six weeks. Manufacturing output
rose, and activity in nonfinancial services increased. Retail sales strengthened slightly, despite some reports of soften-
ing in auto sales. Housing demand grew, lending activity increased, and the energy sector saw further improvement.
Production prospects for crops were mostly favorable. Employment and wages rose, as did prices. Outlooks generally
improved, although a few firms noted they were in wait-and-see mode due to uncertainty surrounding U.S. trade poli-
cies.
Employment and Wages gasoline and diesel prices fell over the reporting period
Overall employment rose moderately, and upward wage as softer oil prices, high product inventories and slowing
pressures were similar to the last report. Manufacturers demand growth weighed on markets. Cattle prices expe-
added to payrolls, with some noting that labor shortages rienced a strong spring rally, supported by solid domestic
were putting pressure on wages. Hiring in the services and international demand for beef. Corn and sorghum
sector continued, including slight job gains in retail. The prices remained near breakeven levels, while wheat
construction labor market generally remained tight, prices were below production costs.
although a slight easing in the availability of workers and Manufacturing
an easing in upward wage pressures was noted. Staffing Expansion in the manufacturing sector continued over
firms noted a surge in demand for white-collar workers in the past six weeks. Output growth picked up for nondu-
the oil and gas industry, and energy firms cited upward rables, and remained positive for durables, particularly
wage pressures, particularly for certain skills sets and for nonmetallic mineral product, primary metals and
experienced personnel. Leisure and hospitality contacts fabricated metals manufacturing. Outlooks stayed posi-
said they have not been able to fill many entry-level and tive, although a few firms expressed concern regarding
seasonal positions due to a lower number and inferior trade policy uncertainty.
quality of applicants compared with past years. Refinery utilization rates increased across the U.S. as
Prices the spring maintenance season wrapped up. Contacts
Selling prices generally increased over the reporting said that 2017 will likely be a difficult year for the refining
period. An exception was in retail, where prices held business because large product inventories and expec-
steady. Some leisure and hospitality contacts reported tations of slower demand growth will likely keep margins
increased pricing power, and oilfield service firms report- low. Gulf coast chemical producers noted both healthy
ed higher prices, reflecting a pickup in demand for their global demand and margins. The outlook for domestic
services. Construction contacts noted higher lumber chemical manufacturers remained optimistic due to
prices, while auto dealers reported downward pressure expectations of persistent raw materials cost advantages
on margins, particularly for new vehicle sales. Retail over their international counterparts. K-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
Retail Sales Office leasing activity was solid in DFW, but continued to
Retail sales rose at a slightly faster pace than the previ- be sluggish in Houston. Industrial demand was holding
ous reporting period, and outlooks were positive. Con- up in DFW, but there was some concern about the ele-
tacts continued to express concern about weak sales vated level of construction.
along the Texas-Mexico border, although luxury retailers Financial Services
in this region were expected to fare better than other Loan demand increased in the district over the reporting
retailers. Auto sales rose but there were some reports of period. Total loan volumes expanded, with a substantial
softening in sales. Contacts said auto dealers were portion of the gains concentrated in commercial and
seeing rising inventories and declining margins. Auto industrial (C&I) lending and in residential and commer-
lenders have tightened credit amid an increase in delin- cial real estate (CRE) loans. Lenders reported higher net
quencies. interest margins and non-interest income, improved loan
Nonfinancial Services performance, and a slight tightening of credit standards
Demand for nonfinancial services expanded moderately on C&I and CRE loans. Deposit volumes expanded over
over the past six weeks, and outlooks remained fairly the past six weeks, supported by an increase in interest
optimistic. Most staffing firms said demand increased rates. The outlook for the next six months or so was
since the last report, and all contacts noted that orders mostly optimistic, with expectations of improved loan
were up year over year. Staffing demand remained demand and business activity.
particularly strong in Dallas, and Houston saw an uptick Energy
as well, albeit a smaller one. Professional and technical Demand for oilfield services continued to improve, and
service firms cited revenue gains, with several firms firms noted receiving higher prices for their services,
noting a pickup in activity. Transportation service firms particularly in the Permian Basin. Drilling activity rose
mostly reported higher revenues and increased cargo further in the Permian and Eagle Ford regions. Several
activity. Rail cargo rose, with continued strength in ship- contacts said the increase in the rig count is likely not
ments of grains and crushed stone, which is used for sustainable and expect that it will taper off or even plat-
fracking sand. Air and parcel shipments were up, while eau around mid-2017. Outlooks remained positive, alt-
trucking cargo volumes were flat. Reports from the lei- hough contacts were more guarded in their optimism
sure and hospitality sector were mixed, with some noting compared with the previous report.
increased activity and others reporting declines. Agriculture
Construction and Real Estate Moisture levels remained favorable across the district.
Home sales rose during the reporting period, although The wheat crop was in good shape and harvest was
respondents noted persistent softness at the higher end. getting underway, although acreage was down from last
Contacts said the spring selling season was shaping up year because prices were below the cost of production.
well, with year-to-date sales mostly on or ahead of plan Production prospects for corn and sorghum were strong.
for builders. However, buyers remained price sensitive, This year is expected to be a good one for Texas cotton,
making it difficult to raise prices despite higher costs, with a sharp rise in acres planted prompted by relatively
squeezing builders' margins. Contacts said builders are high prices, and strong yields expected due to good
becoming more selective in lot purchases due to high subsoil moisture. Demand for cotton continued to be
prices, and some are shifting their focus to bringing more strong, particularly for exports. ■
moderately priced products to market. Outlooks were
positive, and overall sentiment in Houston was more
upbeat than this time last year.
Apartment leasing activity in Houston was better than
expected, and one contact noted that absorption (year to
date through April) was slowly returning to a more nor-
mal pace. Apartment construction remained elevated in
Dallas-Fort Worth (DFW), but was moderating in Austin.
Financing for new multifamily properties remained diffi- For more information about District economic conditions visit:
cult to obtain. www.dallasfed.org/research/texas K-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco The Beige Book ■ May 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Economic activity in the Twelfth District continued to expand at a moderate pace during the reporting period of April
through late May. Overall, price inflation was steady. The labor market tightened further, while upward wage pressures
grew moderately overall. Sales of retail goods grew modestly, and growth in the consumer and business services sec-
tors remained strong. Manufacturing activity picked up to a modest pace, and conditions in the agriculture sector were
mixed. Contacts reported continued strong activity in residential real estate markets. Lending activity grew at a moder-
ate pace.
Employment and Wages priced substitutes. Contacts in the restaurant industry
On balance, the labor market tightened further, and reported that increased labor costs via minimum wage
contacts reported continued moderate wage gains. In the increases were passed along to consumers.
technology, financial services, and health-care sectors, Retail Trade and Services
demand for skilled information technology (IT) labor Overall, retail sales expanded at a modest pace. Sales
remained strong, pushing up wages for those workers. at clothing and accessories retailers improved modestly,
Contacts in the hotel industry noted widespread strong but one contact reported that bankruptcies and store
upward wage pressure for all positions, with one contact closures were on the rise. Sales of beverage products
reporting plans to raise workers’ wages. Recent changes rebounded from a slow first quarter, although vendors
in immigration policy created substantial labor supply without an online presence continued to lose market
shortages for low-skilled workers in the agriculture sec- share to online sales. Demand for automobiles weak-
tor; as a consequence, some growers discarded portions ened and inventories rose. Contacts expect vehicle sales
of their harvest. Several contacts observed that appli- to continue to decline. Pharmaceutical sales growth
cants for some low-skilled positions did not meet the slowed somewhat.
minimum job requirements or were unable to pass pre-
employment screenings such as drug tests. Cost pres- Activity in the consumer and business services sectors
sures in the steel industry resulted in employment reduc- remained strong, with growth varying by industry. De-
tions and slowed wage growth. mand for IT business services remained robust due to investments in cloud computing and big data solutions in
Prices the financial services, health-care and manufacturing
Overall, price growth was steady over the reporting sectors. However, demand for legacy IT services contin-
period. Electricity prices expanded at a moderate pace. ued to soften. E-commerce sales continued to drive
Prices for branded and generic pharmaceuticals contin- strong domestic demand for transportation services.
ued to increase more slowly than in previous years. Hotel bookings edged up from the same period last year,
Competitive pressures pushed down prices for cloud but contacts reported that changes in immigration policy
computing services and data storage. Price growth in the slowed international arrivals markedly. The possibility of
apparel industry declined, as consumers continued a increases in infrastructure spending boosted demand for
long-run shift from designer products towards lower- engineering services. Demand for business consulting L-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco
services slowed somewhat, and contacts noted that any Real Estate and Construction
optimism regarding potential federal government policies Real estate market activity continued to grow at a strong
to reduce corporate tax burdens had not translated into pace, but activity varied by region. Residential construc-
increased investment in many industries. tion activity remained strong in urban centers but slowed to a moderate pace in some rural regions, due in part to
Manufacturing especially wet ground conditions in areas of the Moun-
On balance, manufacturing activity picked up to a mod- tain West. Permits for single and multi-family units edged
est pace during the reporting period. In the aerospace up, but contacts noted that construction was somewhat
and defense industry, capacity utilization improved mod- hampered by shortages of available land in some areas.
estly. Deliveries of commercial aircraft slowed somewhat Supply shortages and strong demand continued to fuel
from the same period in the previous year, but new rapid home price growth in most parts of the District;
orders doubled. Credit demand from manufacturers contacts in urban centers reported that bids routinely
picked up, and a few contacts reported that previously came in significantly above the asking prices. Demand
delayed investments were moving forward. Increased for commercial real estate loans in California remained
investment spending in the manufacturing sector and strong.
continued strength in residential construction lifted the
demand for steel and fabricated metals. Sales of semi- Financial Institutions
conductors stayed strong; however, concerns remained Lending activity continued to grow at a moderate pace
over the elevated dollar and potential changes in trade over the reporting period. In parts of the Northwest, loan
policy. Contacts reported that manufacturers’ demand for demand jumped after a slow start to the year. Demand
energy in eastern Washington was flat. for automobile loans slowed. A few contacts reported increased use of personal credit lines. Deposit growth
Agriculture and Resource-Related Industries continued to expand at a moderate pace. Delinquency
Conditions in the agriculture sector were mixed. A wet rates for automobile loans increased, but overall credit
winter in much of the West boosted water supplies and quality remained at a high level. A few contacts reported
improved crop yields. However, cool wet weather de- that increased competition among lenders contributed to
layed some plantings in Idaho. One contact in the Moun- a softening of loan standards. Liquidity remained ample.
tain West noted that credit demand from the agriculture ■
sector softened as overall growing conditions remained
challenging and yields were down somewhat. Demand
from canneries for tomatoes softened, and the number of
new tomato plantings is expected to decline. While con-
tacts in the agricultural export sector reported optimism
that rising global demand would boost overall sales, they
continued to express concerns over competition from
foreign producers and the still elevated dollar. L-2



