 For use at 2:00 p.m., E.S.T. Wednesday June 9, 2010
Summary of Commentary on ____________________ Current Economic Conditions By Federal Reserve District June 2010

SUMMARY OF COMMENTARY ON CURRENT ECONOMIC CONDITIONS BY FEDERAL RESERVE DISTRICTS June 2010

 TABLE OF CONTENTS
SUMMARY ........................................................................................................................ i
First District—Boston ..................................................................................................... I-1
Second District—New York ...........................................................................................II-1
Third District—Philadelphia ........................................................................................ III-1
Fourth District—Cleveland .......................................................................................... IV-1
Fifth District—Richmond .............................................................................................. V-1
Sixth District—Atlanta ................................................................................................. VI-1
Seventh District—Chicago ......................................................................................... VII-1
Eighth District—St. Louis ......................................................................................... VIII-1
Ninth District—Minneapolis ........................................................................................ IX-1
Tenth District—Kansas City .......................................................................................... X-1
Eleventh District—Dallas ............................................................................................. XI-1
Twelfth District—San Francisco ................................................................................ XII-1

 i SUMMARY* Economic activity continued to improve since the last report across all twelve Federal
Reserve Districts, although many Districts described the pace of growth as “modest.” Consumer
spending and tourism activity generally increased. Business spending also rose, on net, with
employment and capital spending edging up but inventory investment slowing. By sector,
nonfinancial services, manufacturing, and transportation continued to gradually improve.
Residential real estate activity in many Districts was buoyed by the April deadline for the
homebuyer tax credit. Commercial real estate remained weak, although some Districts reported an
increase in leasing. Financial activity was little changed on balance, although a few Districts noted
a modest increase in lending. Spring planting was generally ahead of the normal pace, while
conditions in the natural resource sectors varied across the Districts. Prices of final goods and
services were largely stable as higher input costs were not being passed along to customers and
wage pressures continued to be minimal. Consumer Spending and Tourism. Consumer spending improved from the previous
report. Spending continued to be concentrated in necessities as opposed to discretionary big-ticket
items. Retail sales increased in April and May, although several Districts noted that the gains were
uneven across months. Sales of spring and summer apparel were strong in the Boston, New York,
Philadelphia, St. Louis, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts. Sales of home improvement and lawn
and garden equipment were reported to have strengthened in the Richmond, Chicago, and San
Francisco Districts. Modest improvement in sales of discretionary home goods was noted by
Cleveland, Kansas City, and San Francisco. Vehicle sales also rose, but the rate of increase
reportedly slowed in May in the New York, Cleveland, and San Francisco Districts. Tourism
activity improved. Dallas reported a continued increase in leisure air travel. Hotel occupancy rates
rose in the New York, Atlanta, Chicago, Kansas City, and San Francisco Districts, and convention
activity increased in Atlanta and San Francisco. Richmond reported resort bookings for the
Memorial Day holiday weekend were stronger than last year, and Atlanta indicated cruise-line
bookings were up slightly. Atlanta also reported, however, that the Gulf oil spill and Tennessee
* Prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago and based on information collected on or before May 28, 2010.
This document summarizes comments received from business and other contacts outside the Federal Reserve and is
not a commentary on the views of Federal Reserve officials.

 ii
floods had already resulted in some vacation lodging cancellations. The potential exists for a much
greater impact, although contacts are quite uncertain as to the ultimate effects. Business Spending. Business spending increased moderately from the previous report.
Cleveland, Chicago and Dallas noted that growth in manufacturers’ inventories was leveling off,
while Boston, Atlanta, and St. Louis reported the same for retailers’ inventories. In contrast,
several Districts reported that auto production was failing to keep up with demand, pressuring
already lean auto dealer stocks. Capital spending was slightly higher in a number of Districts,
although several indicated that continuing caution on the part of firms and tight credit availability
were limiting expenditures. The manufacturing, transportation, and energy industries accounted
for most of the increase in spending on plant and equipment. Boston reported that spending on
information technology services increased. Nonfinancial Services. Nonfinancial service activity was slightly improved, on balance,
from the previous report. Several Districts highlighted some strength in demand for professional
technical services, such as software and information technology, engineering, and other scientific
trades. In contrast, sluggishness remained in accounting, legal, marketing, media, and construction
services. Demand for business support services was more mixed. Philadelphia and Chicago
reported slightly higher demand while Boston and St. Louis noted that demand remained weak. St.
Louis also indicated that budget cuts had led to reduced government and education services. Manufacturing and Transportation. Manufacturing and transportation activity
continued to gradually improve across all twelve Districts. Most Districts reported further
increases in factory production, shipments, and new orders, although Philadelphia and Chicago
noted that the pace of gains had slowed in May. Steel producers and metals manufacturers
reported moderately higher production in Cleveland, Chicago, St. Louis, and Dallas, although
Chicago indicated capacity utilization leveled off in May. Auto and parts production increased in
the Cleveland, Richmond, and Chicago Districts. Oil refinery capacity utilization was up in the
Dallas District. Higher residential construction increased demand for construction equipment and
materials in the Philadelphia, Richmond, Chicago, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts. Chicago
also noted that demand from Asia and South America for heavy equipment continued to be robust.
The output of medical equipment and pharmaceuticals remained strong in Boston and Chicago, as
did high-tech manufacturing in Boston, St. Louis, Kansas City, and San Francisco. Food

 iii
processing increased in Dallas and San Francisco. Trucking and rail activity increased, with
freight traffic and raw material shipments on the rise in Cleveland, Atlanta, and Dallas. Real Estate and Construction. Residential real estate activity improved since the last
report. Most Districts noted an increase in home sales and construction prior to the April 30th
deadline for the homebuyer tax credit, with contacts in many of these Districts also indicating a
corresponding slowing in activity in May. Tight credit, the elevated inventory of homes available
for sale, and the “shadow inventory” of foreclosed properties on banks’ balance sheets held back
residential development in the New York, Cleveland, Atlanta, and Chicago Districts. Commercial
real estate activity generally remained weak. Office, industrial, and retail vacancy rates continued
to drift upward in many Districts putting downward pressure on rents. However, lower rents were
said to have led to an increase in leasing activity in New York, Philadelphia, Richmond, Kansas
City, Dallas, and San Francisco. The elevated inventory of existing properties for sale or rent
continued to weigh on new private nonresidential construction. However, stronger industrial
demand was noted in several Districts. Public construction increased in Philadelphia, Cleveland,
and Chicago, but slowed in Minneapolis. Banking and Finance. Financial activity was little changed on balance from the previous
report. Commercial and industrial lending by banks remained weak in most Districts, although
Philadelphia, Chicago, Dallas, and San Francisco noted business loan demand was firming.
Philadelphia also indicated an increase in business lending by non-depository financial companies,
and New York reported that underwriting and investment banking activity strengthened.
Consumer lending weakened in most Districts. In contrast, real estate lending increased even
though standards on these loans remained tighter than on other loans, particularly for commercial
mortgages. Chicago noted that the secondary market for residential mortgages was beginning to
improve, and private equity investment in commercial properties increased in Boston, Chicago,
and Dallas. Loan quality was indicated to be stabilizing or gradually improving in most Districts,
but remained an issue for banks with large exposures to real estate. Contacts in some Districts
cited concerns over the potential impact of the European fiscal crisis on financial and business
conditions, and reported a corresponding increase in uncertainty and financial market volatility. Agriculture and Natural Resources. Crop planting was generally ahead of the seasonal
norm, particularly in the Chicago, Minneapolis, and Dallas Districts, although soybean planting

 iv
was lagging in St. Louis and Kansas City. Crop emergence was also ahead of the typical pace.
Precipitation conditions were generally positive, with the exception of flooding in Tennessee and
dryness in parts of the Richmond and Dallas Districts. Prices for hogs, cattle, and cotton were
higher, while prices for grains, soybeans, and milk were roughly unchanged. Mining and energy
industry activity varied across Districts. According to contacts in the Atlanta District, the Gulf oil
spill had little immediate effect on oil production, although it had damaged fishing operations. Employment, Wages, and Prices. Labor market conditions improved slightly with
permanent employment levels edging up in most Districts. In addition, many Districts again noted
an increase in temporary hires, with Boston and Dallas also indicating a pick up in temporary-to-
permanent transitions. By industry, manufacturing was the most often cited source of employment
gains (both temporary and permanent), and Cleveland, Minneapolis, and Dallas noted an increase
in the manufacturing workweek. Other sources of increased employment were the
biopharmaceutical industry in Boston, retail trade in Chicago, and transportation in Dallas. Wage pressures were limited, although San Francisco noted upward pressure on employee
benefit costs. Prices of final goods and services were largely unchanged in most Districts as higher
input costs were not being passed along to customers and wage pressures continued to be minimal.
Steel prices in many Districts moved higher, as did lumber and food prices, while energy prices
generally declined. Several Districts noted tighter commodity supply conditions, with Richmond
and Kansas City indicating an increase in supplier lead times and Boston and Atlanta reporting
supply chain capacity constraints. Transportation costs moved up in the Philadelphia, Richmond,
Atlanta, and San Francisco Districts, but diesel fuel cost pressures eased in New York.

 I-1 FIRST DISTRICT – BOSTON Business contacts in the First District report stable to increasing activity in recent months
compared with a year earlier, with most citing increases. Retail contacts note some potholes in the
recovery path, but generally positive sales results; most responding manufacturers, staffing firms, and
software and information technology services providers are also seeing recent or continued revenue
growth. Home sales and prices are advancing, although contacts attribute most of the increases to
homebuyers’ tax credits; commercial real estate markets are also improving. Some firms are hiring
beyond replacement and/or re-instituting merit-based pay increases. Firms’ selling prices are generally
stable. Notwithstanding positive trends, the outlook remains cautious.
Retail Contacted retailers in the First District report flat to positive sales results for the months of
March, April and early May; year-over-year same-store sales increases range from zero to about 10
percent. A few contacts characterize sales as “volatile,” and even those retailers reporting increases note
some periods of slowing sales. All respondents mention weak sales for big-ticket items, but say that sales
of core consumables, household items, or clothing are strong. Most contacts are cautiously optimistic
regarding the next few months, but express concern about sales later in the year. Inventory levels are primarily on target, although a few contacts indicate they are a little higher
than expected because of soft sales. Capital spending is mixed, with some retailers spending on new store
openings, remodels, and IT systems, and others remaining cautious on spending. Headcounts are stable.
Vendor and selling prices are said to be constant, although one contact notes an increase in food-related
commodity prices.
Manufacturing and Related Services Most contacted manufacturing firms suggest that a relatively strong first-quarter rebound in
demand is continuing into the current quarter. Results are particularly good at relatively non-cyclical
biopharmaceutical firms as well as highly cyclical firms such as semi-conductor manufacturers. Growth
in demand at these firms was primarily in the double digits, with a few semi-conductor equipment
suppliers reporting Q1 quarterly growth in the high double digits. These manufacturers had particularly
bad years in 2009, but see continued strong demand through the current quarter and year. By contrast,
revenues remain weak at business services firms as well as for a recreational equipment maker. These
companies describe their sales environment as soft, with one noting that demand stagnated in the first
quarter rather than picking up as anticipated. Nonetheless, each of these firms has seen at least small
pockets of improving activity. Input costs remain relatively stable at most of the firms contacted, although costs have edged up a
bit at firms whose production processes are highly energy intensive. In addition, a plastics manufacturer
notes that some of its inputs are in short supply because suppliers ratcheted back capacity during the
downturn and are reluctant to bring it back online. Selling prices are generally unchanged, as the
marketplace remains highly competitive. However, one firm recently removed discounts it instituted in
2009, and a couple of others reported being able to implement modest planned price increases.

 I-2 Employment is mostly stable among contacted manufacturers, although headcounts remain well
below their 2008 levels at a number of firms. A few firms have hired a small number of workers so far
this year and they plan to increase headcount slightly as the year progresses. The strongest potential
employment gains are in the biopharmaceutical industry where one firm plans to increase its headcount
during 2010 by about 10 percent. Responding firms that froze salaries last year have generally reinstated
merit-based increases or plan to do so by the middle of the year. Most manufacturers continue to report
that their planned capital expenditures for 2010 are in line or slightly greater than their expenditures in
2009. Much of the planned capital spending for this year is for infrastructure-related improvements. Overall, manufacturers again indicate that they are cautiously optimistic about the outlook for
their business and the economy for the remainder of 2010. Some express concern about the potential
impact of the current situation in Europe on consumer demand, although most say their exposure to
European markets is relatively limited. Some biopharmaceutical companies expect health care reform to
hurt their bottom lines; one company says the result will be less money for research and development.
Software and Information Technology Services Software and information technology contacts in the First District report improved business
conditions, with demand up significantly relative to a year ago. Increased activity is leading firms that
previously reduced headcount to hire selectively, and merit increases have been reinstated. Respondents
note that many large corporate customers are raising their technology spending budgets, but some small
and mid-size businesses may still not possess the credit capacity to do so. While some discounting
pressure still exists, contacts report they have been able to maintain prices. For those software and IT
firms with substantial shares of their business located internationally, the European debt crisis is a major
concern and the strengthening dollar continues to negatively affect revenues. Despite these concerns,
respondents expect continued growth through the remainder of the year.
Staffing Services New England staffing respondents report that the upward trends of the second half of 2009 and
the beginning months of 2010 have continued; however, a few contacts lament that overall activity still
remains below expectations. Revenues have risen year-over-year, ranging from “slightly better” to up
nearly 50 percent. The number of conversions from temporary to permanent staff is rising and direct-hire
placements are beginning to pick up. Labor demand from the pharmaceutical, biomedical, aerospace, and
semi-conductor industries is steady. There is renewed activity in the legal sector, with increased labor
demand for paralegals, business support personnel, and attorneys. On the other hand, the construction,
architecture, civil engineering, marketing, and accounting sectors remain slow. In terms of labor supply, the skills of job seekers often do not align with the needs of employers;
one contact notes that hundreds of college graduates are looking for work but available positions often
require more experience. Other contacts indicate that highly skilled candidates are receiving multiple
offers; clients, in turn, are showing more willingness to pay higher rates. In addition, turnover has recently
increased, as those with jobs seem somewhat less reticent to give them up. Looking forward, First District
staffing contacts largely express increased optimism and predict gradual improvement through 2010.

 I-3
Commercial Real Estate According to contacts around New England, commercial leasing activity is at least flat, and in
some cases noticeably improved, compared to the last report. A Rhode Island contact notes a significant
increase in leasing activity in recent weeks, driven by a backlog of postponed renewals. He characterizes
tenants as wanting to make deals while they still have significant bargaining power; furthermore, he hears
word that some firms are beginning to consider new hiring and expansion of operations. A Hartford
contact describes leasing activity as flat in his metropolitan area and says this is consistent with local
fundamentals, such as limited hiring activity and persistent retail vacancies downtown; nonetheless, he
notes modest improvements in sentiment among both business professionals and consumers. Boston
contacts report an uptick in lease deal volume; one was pleased to see a recent lease deal that will absorb
a large portion of space in the Hancock tower, but otherwise had little good news to report. Across the
region, rental rates and vacancy were largely unchanged in recent weeks. With the exception of industrial
properties in Rhode Island, commercial property sales activity was slow across markets in the region. Contacts in Providence and Boston note that debt default rates for commercial properties remain
significant, and defaults are perceived to be on the rise in Boston’s suburban corridors. The good news,
however, is that properties and/or debt are changing hands as new equity is increasingly willing to invest
in commercial real estate. A commercial real estate lender in Boston confirmed the influx of equity cash
as a welcome development after at least 18 months of investor skittishness. The same lender is seeing
many worthy lending opportunities in greater Boston and reports facing increasingly stiff competition
from other regional lenders to lower rates and relax loan terms. The outlook is mixed among respondents around the region. The Providence contact is more
optimistic about both hiring and leasing over the next six to 12 months than a Boston contact, who
maintains his prediction that rents have further to fall. In Hartford, the outlook is largely unchanged, and a
Boston banking contact remains “guardedly optimistic.” However, nearly all contacts point to the recent
troubles in Europe as a new source of uncertainty on the horizon.
Residential Real Estate Residential real estate markets in New England experienced large gains in April compared to a
year earlier; contacts attribute much of the improvement to the impending expiration of the homebuyer
tax credits. Home sales increased sharply year-over-year across the region, ranging from a 26 percent
increase in Rhode Island to a 63 percent increase in Maine. Condo sales increased between 39 percent and
64 percent in April compared to a year ago. The median price of homes also showed modest improvement
in all markets. The median price of condos in the region also increased modestly year-over-year in April,
except in Rhode Island, where it fell 15 percent. April 30 was the deadline to sign a contract on a home in order to be eligible for the homebuyer
tax credits; because June 30 is the associated deadline to close on the home and contract-signings
continued through April, contacts expect sales numbers to remain strong in May and June. There is no
consensus among respondents about how markets will perform after June, although some cite anecdotal
evidence of continued activity after April 30 and most think that low interest rates and fairly low prices
will continue to make the market attractive for prospective buyers.

 II-1 SECOND DISTRICT--NEW YORK The Second District’s economy has strengthened further since the last report, with scattered signs
of improvement in the job market; manufacturers and other firms continue to face upward cost pressures,
but prices at the consumer level remain relatively stable. Manufacturing-sector contacts continue to
report improvement in business activity and increasingly widespread plans to increase capital spending.
Auto dealers report strong sales for April but mixed results for May. Similarly, non-auto retailers
generally report that sales were robust and ahead of plan since the last report, though one large chain
reports that sales slowed in May. Tourism activity in New York City has strengthened further since the
last report. Commercial real estate markets have generally been steady since the last report. Residential
real estate markets have been steady to somewhat firmer since the last report, especially at the lower end
of the market. Finally, bankers report weaker demand for consumer loans but little change in other
categories; they also note some tightening in credit standards but little change in credit spreads or
delinquency rates.
Consumer Spending Retailers report strong sales for April but mixed results for May. Contacts at two major malls in
western New York State report that sales and traffic were generally brisk in April and May, though
inclement weather in early May led to a slow start to the month. One mall indicates that Canadian
shoppers continue to represent a large share of customers. A major retail chain reports that business was
ahead of plan in April, with same-store up more than 5 percent; however, sales reportedly weakened in
the first three weeks of May and were somewhat below plan, with New York City continuing to out-
perform other areas. In general, contacts report that sales of clothing, cosmetics and jewelry were
relatively strong. However, sales of goods for the home were more mixed, with one contact noting a
recent drop-off in sales of large appliances, which is partly attributed to the end of government rebate

 II-2
programs. Separately, the Conference Board reports that consumer confidence among residents of the
Middle Atlantic states (NY, NJ, Pa) surged to a two-year high in April but retreated modestly in May. Vehicle sales have reportedly slowed a bit in recent weeks. Rochester-areas auto dealers report
that sales were relatively strong in April, rising by as much as 25 percent from a year ago (though spring
2009 makes a particularly low base for comparison); however, results for May have been more mixed,
with some softening in demand for domestic makes. Dealers in the Buffalo area report that sales
remained strong in April, rising nearly 10 percent from a year earlier, but that they cooled in May and
were modestly lower than in May 2009. Auto dealers in both areas report recent improvement in both
retail and wholesale credit conditions. Tourism activity in New York City has shown further signs of strengthening in April and May.
Manhattan hotels report a marked pickup in revenue in April and the first three weeks of May, reflecting
both higher room rates and increased occupancy. Total revenues rose by more than the seasonal norm
from the first quarter and were up roughly 10 percent from a year earlier. Similarly, Broadway theaters
report that business has picked up noticeably in recent weeks, after slowing a bit in mid-April. Revenues
for the first half of May were running 16 percent ahead of a year ago, partly reflecting increased
attendance, but primarily due to higher ticket prices. Construction and Real Estate Housing markets have been steady to somewhat firmer since the last report, with the gains largely
attributed to the soon-to-expire home-buyer tax credit spurring demand at the lower end. Realtors across
New York State report that sales activity was roughly 20 percent higher in April than a year earlier and
prices were up about 8 percent on average. Similarly, Buffalo-area Realtors report that home sales were
brisk in April, and that prices were up more than 10 percent from a year earlier, though conditions are
reported to have cooled off dramatically in May, due to the end of the tax credit. An authority on New
Jersey’s housing industry also reports a moderate pickup in sales activity this quarter, particularly at the

 II-3
lower end of the market—again, largely attributed to the home-buyer tax credit. In other segments of
northern New Jersey’s market, prices are essentially flat, and price trends are not as robust as builders and
developers had expected, as a large “shadow inventory” of existing homes is said to be weighing down
the market. There is concern that conditions will weaken again in the third quarter, without the support of
the home-buyer tax credit. Housing affordability remains a major issue. Activity in Manhattan’s co-op and condo market has leveled off, following a modest pickup in
the first quarter. The pace of new contract signings has retreated a bit in recent weeks, while prices have
held steady at about 20-30 percent below their peak. There remains a large supply of units on the
markets, though one contact notes that the inventory of competitively priced units is fairly lean. While
the home-buyer tax credit has had little impact on Manhattan’s high-priced market, it has reportedly had a
positive effect elsewhere in New York City, where prices are considerably more moderate. Manhattan’s
apartment rental market has strengthened since the last report. Rents have recovered modestly, and
landlords are offering less generous concessions than last year or even a few months ago. The inventory
of available rental units has stabilized. Commercial real estate markets in and around New York City have been relatively steady since
the last report. Leasing activity, which was very depressed throughout most of 2009, has picked up
noticeably since the beginning of this year and is now back up to “normal” levels. Much of the recent
pickup has come from legal firms and, to a lesser extent, from business services, media, and government
agencies; in contrast, there has been a dearth of new leasing by financial firms. Still, vacancy rates
continue to edge up, as businesses tend to be taking less space than they had at prior locations. Asking
rents continue to drift down but appear to be bottoming; net effective rents have been stable since last
summer, as landlords have gradually scaled back on concessions.

 II-4 Other Business Activity Manufacturing firms in the District remain upbeat, noting ongoing gains in employment, new
orders, shipments and general business activity; a growing proportion of respondents plans to increase
capital spending in the months ahead. Contacts outside the manufacturing sector continue to describe
both business conditions and employment levels as stable or rising modestly. Both manufacturers and
other firms report continued widespread rises in prices paid but only modest increases in selling prices. A contact in the trucking industry reports that business has continued to improve moderately
since the last report and that truckers are seeing some relief from lower diesel prices. There are scattered
but increasing reports of driver turnover—drivers leaving for more lucrative jobs. A securities-industry
contact notes that business conditions have been good, with both underwriting and investment banking
activity strengthening, and contends that major layoffs are now behind us; however, firms are reportedly
putting off hiring and investment, due to uncertainty about regulatory reform as well as concern about
global financial conditions, particularly in Europe. Recent hiring by financial firms has largely been in
the area of compliance. Financial Developments Contacts at small to medium-sized banks in the District report mixed trends in loan demand:
respondents indicated decreased demand for consumer loans, increased demand for commercial
mortgages, and no change for residential mortgages and commercial and industrial loans. Bankers also
note increased demand for refinancing, for the first time in almost a year. Respondents indicate
tightening credit standards for commercial mortgage and commercial and industrial loans but no change
in standards for other types of loans. No banker reported easing credit standards for any type of loan.
Bankers report an increase in spreads of loan rates over costs of funds for consumer loans and commercial
and industrial loans. Spreads on residential and commercial mortgages were steady. Finally, respondents
report little or no change in delinquency rates for any category.

 III - 1 THIRD DISTRICT – PHILADELPHIA Economic activity has advanced modestly in the Third District since the last Beige Book.
Manufacturers, on balance, reported increases in shipments and new orders. Retailers posted
sales increases from April to May. Motor vehicle dealers also indicated that sales increased.
Third District banks reported mostly steady loan volume outstanding. Residential real estate
agents and homebuilders said home sales increased from March to April but slowed in May.
Contacts in the commercial real estate sector said leasing has picked up, but vacancy rates have
not improved, and construction activity continued to be weak. Service-sector companies
generally reported slight gains in activity. Business firms in the region indicated that prices of
most goods and services have been steady, although there were increased reports of rising prices
for basic materials, construction-related products, and shipping. The outlook among Third District business contacts is positive but cautious, overall.
Manufacturers forecast a rise in shipments and orders during the next six months, on balance.
Retailers expect sales to expand modestly as long as overall economic conditions and the
employment situation improve. Auto dealers expect the sales rate to increase somewhat in the
months ahead. Bankers expect a slight increase in lending, mostly in commercial and industrial
loans. Residential real estate contacts expect the pace of home sales to ease following the end of
the federal tax credit for purchases. Contacts in nonresidential real estate expect leasing to
increase slowly, but they do not expect any near-term gains in construction activity. Service-
sector companies expect continued modest growth for the rest of the year.
Manufacturing Third District manufacturers reported increases in shipments and new orders in May, on
balance. Compared with April, however, the number of firms recording rising orders declined
somewhat, although the number of firms recording rising shipments increased. Among the major
manufacturing industries in the region, increases in orders were more common for producers of
lumber and wood products, industrial materials, and industrial equipment. In contrast, producers
of apparel and electrical equipment reported mostly declines in orders. In general, manufacturers
continued to describe the increase in demand for their products as slow. One manufacturer said,

 III - 2
“Conditions have improved slightly,” and another said, “Activity is showing signs of improving
but at a slow pace.” Third District manufacturers expect business conditions to improve during the next six
months, on balance, and the margin of positive opinions over negative opinions has been
practically unchanged since the previous Beige Book. Among the firms surveyed in May, about
half expect increases in new orders and shipments; a bit over one-tenth expect decreases. Capital
spending plans among area manufacturers remain positive, on balance, but not strong. About
one-fourth of the firms polled in May plan to increase expenditures for new plant and equipment,
but one-half plan to maintain level spending, and nearly one-fifth expect to reduce spending.
Retail Third District retailers reported increased sales in May compared with April and with
May of last year. They said that spring apparel sales continued to rise and that sales of other lines
of merchandise had begun to move up as well. Although some merchants cautioned that much of
the year-over-year improvement in sales was a consequence of last year’s poor results, most said
the current trend in sales was encouraging. “It’s definitely a better year than last,” one retailer
remarked, “and we are selectively expanding.” Looking ahead, Third District retailers expect the
sales trend to remain positive as long as overall economic conditions continue to improve. Third District auto dealers reported a rise in sales in May compared with April and with
May of last year. They said a shortage of popular models has limited the advance in sales, but
they expect manufacturers to increase production soon. Dealers expect sales to continue to move
up through the rest of the year.
Finance Total outstanding loan volume at most of the Third District banks contacted for this
report has been virtually level since the last Beige Book. On balance, commercial bank lending
officers said there has been a small increase in business lending, some gains in residential
mortgage lending, but a decline in consumer lending. Bankers generally reported that demand for
business loans has been rising, although some noted that use of existing credit lines by many
commercial customers has been less than expected. Contacts in the Third District financial
community noted recent signs of increased interest in business lending by non-depository

 III - 3
financial companies. Most of the surveyed banks indicated that credit quality measures have
shown little change since the last Beige Book, although some noted slight improvement. Looking ahead, Third District bankers expect modest loan growth. They generally expect
gains in business lending. In contrast, several bankers said they expect a falloff in demand for
residential mortgages and continued softness in consumer loan demand. “Individuals are still
deleveraging and looking to build up cash reserves,” one banker said.
Real Estate and Construction Contacts in residential real estate markets reported increases in sales of new and existing
homes from March to April as well as year-over-year gains for both months, but the sales pace
slowed in May. The March-April results were fueled by the federal income tax credit for home
purchases, according to contacts, and they expect the monthly sales rate to taper off. They expect
some sales momentum for existing homes as recent homebuyers sell their current residences, but
slower sales after that. Many contacts believe “we stole sales from the future,” as one real estate
agent said. Although builders reduced inventories of built homes in the past few months, they do
not expect construction activity to pick up this summer. For both new and existing homes,
contacts reported little change in prices compared with a year ago. Nonresidential real estate firms indicated that vacancy rates in commercial and industrial
buildings have increased slightly in most parts of the Third District in the past few months.
Leasing activity has picked up somewhat, but effective rents have been steady to down as
recently completed buildings have added to the supply of available space. Construction activity
has been generally flat at low levels, according to contacts, although some reported increases in
road building and publicly funded projects. Contacts expect leasing activity to increase slowly in
the months ahead and rents to remain about steady. “It will not be a robust recovery,” according
to one contact whose opinion reflected the consensus. Building contractors and commercial real
estate agents were in agreement that construction activity showed no signs of increasing in the
near term.
Services Service-sector firms generally reported that activity has expanded slightly since the last
Beige Book. Business services firms indicated that client companies in most industry segments

 III - 4
have increased use of their services, with the exception of the construction industry, a sector in
which a recovery has not yet occurred. Several business services firms reported increased interest
in outsourced functions by companies in a range of industries as well as by state and local
governments. Nearly all the services firms contacted for this report noted that the recent
improvement has been slight. One contact said, “The growth is modest, and the year-over-year
comparison is easy because business was very slow last year.” Looking ahead, most of the
services firms contacted for this report expect continued modest growth for the rest of the year.
Prices and Wages Reports on input costs and output prices have been mixed since the last Beige Book,
although there has been an increase in the number of reports of rising prices. Around 40 percent
of the manufacturing firms polled in May noted increases in the costs of the commodities they
use, and 50 percent reported steady input costs. Manufacturers continued to report rising costs
for metals and metal products, and they also reported increased costs for lumber and chemicals.
Most manufacturers said they have not raised the prices of the products they make, although
some producers of lumber and wood products, metals, and electrical equipment have raised
prices. Construction firms noted increases in the costs of lumber, drywall, oil-based products,
and some metal products. Retailers reported mostly flat selling prices. However, they noted
increases in the cost of cotton goods and international freight rates. Auto dealers said vehicle
selling prices have moved up, particularly for used cars. Business firms in the region reported a slight increase in hiring, on balance, but no
significant changes in wages since the last Beige Book. Several firms noted that recent increases
in business activity have prompted them to consider increasing staffing levels sometime this
year. Employment agencies reported strengthening demand for temporary workers and a slight
increase in demand for permanent employees.

 IV - 1 FOURTH DISTRICT – CLEVELAND The economy in the Fourth District showed further signs of strengthening during the past
eight weeks. Manufacturers reported that the rise in production which began late last year
continued, although orders remain below pre-recession levels. Contacts in non-residential
construction noted some signs of renewed growth, while residential builders cited only a modest
uptick in activity. Sales figures from auto dealers showed a moderate improvement, whereas
District retailers saw their rate of sales growth slow. Energy production was mixed, and reports
indicate a better-than-expected rise in freight transport volume. Demand by businesses and
consumers for new loans remains weak, while some bankers commented that the lending
environment is starting to grow more competitive. There was a broad-based pickup in employment in the manufacturing sector, where
businesses are recalling workers and increasing production hours. Staffing-firm representatives
had mixed reports on the number of new job openings, with opportunities concentrated in the
healthcare field. Wage pressures continue to be contained. Apart from rising prices for steel and
lumber, raw materials and product pricing was generally stable. Manufacturing. Reports from District factories generally show that production levels
continued to increase during the past eight weeks and on a year-over-year basis, though by
varying amounts. Some respondents attributed recent increases to seasonal factors. Most
manufacturers are confident about near-term prospects and expect their sales to remain on a
moderate upward trend. However, they do not expect a strong rebound to pre-recession levels
this year, and a few anticipate a leveling off in new orders. Steel shipments remain on the
upswing, with half of our contacts characterizing volume as better than expected. Rising volume
is being driven by autos, energy, and construction equipment. Although some underlying
uncertainty remains, there is a sense that the current level of business activity is sustainable, at
least through the third quarter. District auto production was stable in April on a month-over-
month basis, while year-over-year it rose substantially for both domestic and foreign nameplates. A large majority of our contacts told us that their inventories are now well balanced,
reflecting increased demand. Capacity utilization rates continue to improve, with a few reports
indicating that it is now moving toward historical norms. Capital outlays remain at relatively
low levels, and business owners are approaching spending decisions with caution. However, the
number of respondents who plan on additional spending during the second half of 2010 has
increased substantially since our last report. Several steel producers and service center
representatives reported that they are beginning to see signs of a leveling off in steel prices.
Nonetheless, a few manufacturers are contemplating, or have already put in place, higher product
prices that reflect the rise in the cost of steel. Even though new hiring is limited, we heard
numerous reports of recalling laid-off workers and increasing work hours. Wage pressures are
contained.

 IV - 2 Real Estate. In general, new home sales improved slightly during the past eight weeks
and on a year-over-year basis. Our contacts tell us that the move-up and third-time home-buyer
categories are gaining momentum, while activity by entry-level buyers is lessening.
Homebuilders are not expecting a turnaround in the housing market this year, and they are
concerned about the effect of foreclosures and real estate owned properties on housing
inventories. Builders also reported that their current spec inventory is in line with market
demand. Little change was noted in the list prices of new homes, and reports indicate an overall
rise in construction material costs, especially for lumber. Skeleton crews remain the norm for
general contractors and subcontractors. Activity in non-residential construction continues to show signs of a pickup. Inquiries
have improved, and many contractors said that their backlogs are higher than year-ago levels.
Most projects currently under-way fall within the industrial and government-funded
infrastructure categories. The glut in retail space shows no signs of diminishing. Almost all of
our contacts are fairly optimistic in their outlook for the remainder of the year. Increased costs
for construction materials were limited to steel and lumber. General contractors reported a small
amount of seasonal and permanent hiring. While opportunities for subcontractors are beginning
to improve, many of them are still struggling and taking on projects at cost. Consumer Spending. In general, retail sales were stable or down slightly during April
on a month-over-month basis and showed some improvement from year-ago levels. Although
consumers continue to focus on buying necessities, retailers noted that they see a pickup in
purchases of discretionary items, especially for those used in the home. Looking forward,
retailers are cautiously optimistic, and most expect sales to show a slight improvement going into
the third quarter. Vendor and store pricing has been relatively stable. Auto dealers saw new
vehicle sales increase from mid-April through mid-May, when compared with the previous 30-
day period, and on a year-over-year basis. Reported increases varied widely. Used vehicle
purchases were characterized as doing well. Overall, dealers are cautiously optimistic and
expect slow, steady sales growth through the summer months. Reports on vehicle inventories
were mixed. Half of our contacts said they need more cars on their lots, while others noted that
inventories are in line with sales. Contacts also said that buyers are finding it easier to obtain
financing from banks, credit unions, and captive financing companies. Reports show little
change in staffing levels at retailers or auto dealers. Banking. The market for business lending remains soft, with most bankers reporting that
demand for new loans is steady to down slightly. Interest rates were stable, although a few of
our respondents noted that competition is putting downward pressure on their rates. On the
consumer side, most bankers characterized loan demand as weak or flat. Those seeing a slight
increase attributed it to draw downs on home equity lines of credit. The residential mortgage
market continues at a slow pace, with several bankers noting that activity has diminished further

 IV - 3
since the end of the home-buyer tax credit. Core deposits continued to grow at most banks,
while deposit rates remain low or fell further. Reports on the credit quality of loan applicants
were mixed. Delinquencies were improving almost across the board, with the only problem
areas continuing to be those related to real estate. Bankers expect that current credit standards
will persist for the foreseeable future. Overall employment levels are stable, although two large
banks reported some workforce growth. Energy. Reports show little change in oil and natural gas production during the past
eight weeks, with only a modest increase expected going into the summer. Spot prices for oil
and gas are trending down. We heard mixed reports on coal output. One producer attributed
very strong demand for metallurgical coal to the global upswing in steel production, while long-
term expectations by electric utilities for flat demand and excess capacity is putting downward
pressure on coal output. Prices for coal were mixed. In general, capital expenditures by energy
producers are flat to down. However, two of our contacts said that they expect to increase
capital outlays during the second half of 2010. With the exception of steel pipe, production
equipment and materials costs were flat. Employment was steady, and little hiring is expected in
the near future. Wage pressures are contained. Transportation. Freight transport executives reported favorable volume trends, with
corresponding gains in their bottom lines. However, profits remain below historical norms.
Several contacts noted that the increased volume was above expectations. Most freight
executives characterized their outlook as optimistic. Nonetheless, there remains some
underlying concern about the sustainability of the recovery and credit availability for working
capital. Several of our contacts noted that they are attempting to negotiate moderate rate
increases, with some degree of success. They also reported a significant rise in the cost of
packaging materials and much higher quotes for tractors and trailers to be delivered in the
summer, which they attributed to new engine regulations. Major capital purchases remain at low
levels. However, due to aging fleets and growing demand, the need to replace equipment may
grow toward year-end. Current hiring is for replacement only. If volume continues to build,
freight executives expect to add capacity in the near term.

 V-1 FIFTH DISTRICT–RICHMOND Overview. Economic activity in the Fifth District continued to post moderate gains
across most sectors from weak levels. Manufacturing continued to be a bright spot, with contacts
indicating slow-but-steady expansion across a broad range of industries. Banks and other
services-providing firms, also cited improvements over the last six to eight weeks, with scattered
reports of weaker activity. For example, several professional services firms reported rising
revenues, but an executive at a large healthcare organization stated that demand was weaker than
expected. The real estate market sent mostly positive signals. In a striking change from recent
months, several contacts noted a pickup in the high end of the market. Retail sales activity was
virtually unchanged in recent weeks, but auto sales improved. While several temp agencies
reported improving demand, other labor market indicators were weak. Slight increases in
commodity and component prices were noted by manufacturing and services firms. Retail. Retail sales generally flattened in recent weeks, but there were a few reports of
improvement. Department stores overall reported no change in sales, and retailers in areas with
high unemployment indicated that their sales continued to be held down by jobless customers
scrimping on purchases. However, a retail representative in central Virginia noted an uptick and
said that people were now spending on a wider variety of goods compared to a year ago when
customers were “just buying the bare essentials.” In addition, grocery, home improvement, and
garden supply retailers reported accelerating sales. Auto dealers in West Virginia and South
Carolina also reported a pick-up in sales and said that manufacturers have not been able to gear
up fast enough to keep up with dealers’ orders for domestic and foreign nameplates. Other big-
ticket sales remained in a slump, however. Retail prices rose slightly faster since our last report. Services. Revenues at services-providing firms rose more quickly than last month,
although a few contacts continued to report weakness. Transportation services firms reported
stronger business, and enplanements rose at District airports. Executives at trucking firms noted
stronger revenues, in part from the ability to raise prices in some markets. In addition, contacts at
professional, scientific, and technical services firms reported rapidly rising revenues, and call
centers in North Carolina cited expanded hiring. In contrast, an executive at a large healthcare
organization noted that customer demand for services was “a little soft” relative to plan because
the flu season was not as severe as expected. Services firms related to building construction also
continued to report a down market. Aside from trucking, price changes at services firms were
essentially neutral over the last month, with most contacts reporting no change in recent weeks.

 V-2 Manufacturing. District manufacturing activity continued to expand. Overall,
manufacturers reported that shipments edged higher and new orders advanced at a solid pace,
while employment grew at a slower pace. An auto parts supplier noted that orders continued to
increase more quickly than expected, which resulted in rush orders for foreign and domestic
materials. Similarly, another manufacturer of automotive components indicated that his company
was still experiencing significant unforeseen demand from the auto sector. He also noted that his
non-auto related business was finally starting to recover as well. Moreover, a number of lumber
companies reported their orders had increased because their customers were rebuilding
inventories. Accordingly, the increased demand resulted in a small profit for their firms for the
first time since early 2007. A manufacturer of door components reported that revenues were 10-
15 percent above the lows of 2009. Contacts also stated that raw material lead times had
increased. Prices of raw materials increased at a slightly quicker pace than a month ago, while
finished goods prices grew at a somewhat slower pace than earlier. Finance. Banking activity in the District remained generally weak since our last
assessment. However, several respondents stated that their lending activity over the last few
months was up moderately in at least some segments of their markets. Consumer lending was
described by one banker as up from earlier in the year and another banker cited increased use of
credit cards. Industrial loans were little changed in recent months, as businesses kept a tight
control on inventory and were cautious about investing in new equipment. Several mortgage
bankers stated that applications dipped after the homebuyer tax credit expired at the end of April,
but one banker noted that activity recovered in the second half of May. While some bankers saw
no improvement in higher-priced home sales, several lenders reported significant improvements
in that segment from extremely low levels. Credit quality was little changed, although one
banker reported increases in 30-day delinquencies. Other bankers stated that, on balance, quality
was improving because bad loans were being taken off their books. Real Estate. Residential real estate markets across the District continued to strengthen.
While most of the gains were in the low-to-mid price range, activity inched up for higher priced
homes in several areas. Properties in the mid-to-upper price range sold very quickly in the D.C.,
area, with the best sellers in the $800k-$1.1M range. The inventory of unsold homes there was at
its lowest level in eighteen months. Several agents reported getting multiple offers on properties.
Concern that interest rates would rise once the homebuyer tax credit expired had pushed some
people to purchase homes. House prices held steady across much of the District, but they

 V-3
increased somewhat over the last 30 days in Fredericksburg, Va., where a shortage of inventory
and multiple contracts were noted. Commercial real estate agents reported modest improvements since our last report. For example, vacancy rates for office space in Columbia, S.C., and Charlotte, N.C.,
markets decreased due to positive absorption, but were stable in Richmond. Leasing activity
eased in Charlotte and demand was unchanged at a weak level. A slight pick-up in retail leasing
was reported in Richmond. Rental rates remained stable in most sectors. New construction
remained generally nonexistent. However, a construction contractor reported starting a 100-
percent speculative office building in a suburban area and indicated he would like to start a
second one in the near future. He felt confident that the new buildings would attract tenants
shying away from more urban locations. Tourism. Tourist activity along the coast was either unchanged or up slightly from a year
ago, and mountain resorts reported generally improving conditions. Contacts on the Outer Banks
of North Carolina and in Virginia Beach said that bookings over the Memorial Day weekend
were somewhat stronger when compared to earlier expectations. One contact from the Outer
Banks noted that attitudes were definitely improving. Tourists were starting to eat out more and
attending ticketed events again. While an analyst in Myrtle Beach indicated that increased
promotion was attracting more visitors, spending levels continued to be quite low. Managers at
mountain resorts reported that holiday bookings were somewhat stronger than last year. They
attributed the increase in reservations to people staying closer to home, which allowed tourists to
spend more at restaurants and events. Labor Markets. Fifth District labor markets remained soft, but temporary employment
agents cited recent gains. While several services firms reported that hiring was picking up, job
cuts continued at many retail establishments. No change in the number of employees was noted
in most manufacturing industries, but several contacts reported cuts in weekly production hours.
A Raleigh contact at a temp agency reported seeing a steady increase in demand for his clients,
specifically in office support positions where demand had been lagging in previous periods. One
respondent stated that temp employment among District auto- and metals-related manufacturers
improved recently. Most temp agency contacts expected the demand for workers to continue to
improve, citing a recovering economy and higher manufacturing orders. Wage growth picked up
in retail and services businesses, but one executive said that manufacturing wages had not
increased since 2007 and he did not expect them to change this year.

 V-4 Agriculture. Rainfall brought much needed relief and improved soil moisture to most
areas of the District, which helped revive pastures and field crops. However, dry conditions and
inconsistent weather took a toll on crops and yield potential in other areas. For example, farmers
expected low rainfall to reduce winter wheat harvests in South Carolina. An analyst in Virginia
reported some fruit and vegetable damage due to near frost-level temperatures. Also farmers
expected lower yields of hay because sporadic rainfall hampered production and curing. In
Maryland, however, hay supplies remained adequate and pasture conditions were rated fair to
good. In North and South Carolina, plantings of peanuts and soybeans were well on their way,
and farmers in Virginia were busy planting sweet corn, cantaloupes, peppers and squash. The
2010 peach harvest has just begun in South Carolina and conditions are favorable for peach
growers. Lastly, peach and apple conditions in West Virginia ranged from fair to excellent, with
most orchards in good condition.

 VI-1 SIXTH DISTRICT – ATLANTA Summary. On balance, Sixth District business conditions appear to have
improved modestly in April and May. Most retail contacts continued to experience
increased traffic and sales, and their outlook remained generally optimistic. Reports on
tourism were also generally positive; however, considerable uncertainty was expressed
about the potential impact from the Gulf oil spill and the recent floods in Tennessee.
Overall, homebuilder and Realtor reports suggested that the pace of new and existing
home sales slowed somewhat, whereas commercial construction contacts reported
ongoing weak conditions. The District’s manufacturing and transportation segments
extended their previous gains in new orders and production. By most accounts, bank
credit conditions remained tight. Firms across several sectors reported increasing hours
worked of existing staff and expanded the utilization of temporary hires. However, firms
generally remained reluctant to add permanent staff. According to manufacturers and
homebuilders, transportation and material costs rose slightly, but they did not plan to pass
these increases along to customers. Consumer Spending and Tourism. Most retail merchants reported continued
improvement in traffic and sales, and a slight increase in confidence among consumers in
April and May. Despite the uptick in sales, retailers continued to keep their inventory
levels relatively low, preferring instead to have more inventories held at the wholesale
level. The outlook among retail contacts was positive with the majority expecting
continued sales growth over the next couple of months. Vehicle sales increased from
weak year-ago levels, with foreign brands experiencing the strongest demand. The tourism sector continued to improve. Hospitality contacts in Atlanta, Miami,
Nashville, New Orleans, Orlando, and Tampa all noted hotel occupancy rates above the
national average. Business-related travel and convention bookings were up and future
bookings looked strong. Convention hotel contacts began noting some pricing power.
Cruise-line bookings were gradually trending up and many were able to increase prices
slightly. Similarly, contacts in the restaurant industry experienced a modest increase in
activity and projections for the near-term were optimistic. However, the recent Gulf oil spill and the floods in Tennessee have tempered the
outlook in those areas. Contacts indicated that the potential impact on the tourism

 VI-2
industry along the coastline of Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama and western Florida
could be substantial. In some cases, vacation lodging cancellations have been replaced
by bookings from clean-up crews, laborers, and the National Guard. The Nashville area is
expected to see a decline in tourism-related receipts because of damage to several tourist
venues there. The near-term outlook among hospitality contacts varied greatly, reflecting
the high level of uncertainty. Real Estate and Construction. District homebuilders reported that new home
sales growth softened, but remained positive on a year-over-year basis. Most of the
weaker reports came from contacts in Florida who noted a relatively sharp slowing in
sales growth. The pace of construction activity weakened as well and was described as
being roughly even with a year earlier. Most homebuilders commented that tax
incentives had been a major driver of sales in most markets, although access to financing
remained a significant challenge. The outlook among residential builder contacts
weakened from the previous report but remained slightly positive overall. Realtors indicated another modest improvement in existing home sales in April
compared with a year earlier. However, on a month-over-month basis, responses from
contacts showed that sales softened slightly. Realtors reported that high-end home sales
exceeded their year-earlier level for the first time since early 2006. Inventory levels were
described as similar to a year earlier, and home prices stabilized. The outlook for sales
over the next several months remained positive but was a little less upbeat than recent
reports. The majority of commercial contacts reported that the pace of development was
still well below year-earlier levels and construction backlogs were down sharply. Most
noted that limited access to financing and weak demand continued to constrain activity.
The outlook for commercial construction activity for the rest of the year remained weak. Manufacturing and Transportation. A majority of District manufacturers noted
increased levels of new orders and production in April compared with March. Most firms
also reported plans to expand production levels in the short-term. Freight demand
continued to improve from weak year-ago levels. Trucking contacts in the District noted
an increase in business. However, they were uncertain whether the improvements
reflected reduced capacity in the transportation industry or an overall increase in demand.

 VI-3
Regional rail shipments were up notably for automotive, chemical, and other raw
industrial materials. Banking and Finance. Banking contacts reported that credit standards remained
stringent but that credit was readily available for borrowers that met the stricter
requirements. Bankers also cited increasing foreclosure rates, bankruptcies, and loan
delinquencies in several markets. Employment and Prices. Although overall payroll employment levels appear to
have increased across much of the District, many businesses still reported that they had a
strong preference for increasing the hours for existing staff and using temporary staff
rather than hiring fulltime employees. District manufacturing and homebuilder contacts cited increases in commodity
prices and transportation costs in April and early May. Several businesses reported that
supply chain capacity constraints were responsible for some of the price increases.
However, little of these cost increases were expected to be passed on to consumers as
lower labor costs continued to relieve pressure on business balance sheets, and most firms
said they faced intense competitive pressures. Natural Resources and Agriculture. Late April’s large oil spill in the Gulf of
Mexico has had little immediate impact on District oil production. However, industry
contacts expressed concern about the potential impact on future production if stricter
regulations restrict drilling activity. Following the spill, supply vessels were able to
reach existing rigs without interruption, and refinery operations were not disrupted
significantly. Gulf Coast crude oil and gasoline stocks remained near the top of their
seasonal average for this time of year. The regional fishing industry reported a significant
reduction in activity, as fears of water contamination and safety concerns prompting bans
on both commercial and recreational fishing in zones affected by the spill. In early May, severe rainfall flooded parts of central Tennessee. According to the
USDA National Agricultural Statistics Service’s weekly crop survey, Tennessee farmers
reported moderate to severe damages to 39 percent of the state’s corn crop and 21 percent
of winter wheat. Damages to fruit and vegetable crops and nursery stock have also been
reported, as well as significant destruction of farm infrastructure. Elsewhere in the
District, recent rains generally improved soil moisture conditions and crop production.

 VII-1 SEVENTH DISTRICT—CHICAGO Summary. Economic activity in the Seventh District continued to improve, but the rate of
improvement slowed from April to May. Manufacturing continued to lead the way, and consumer
and business spending also increased further. Construction activity improved slightly on the basis of
increases in residential and public building. However, the gains in all of these sectors in May were
somewhat slower than in April. Price pressures remained limited. Crop conditions were slightly
better than normal for this time of year. Consumer spending. Consumer spending increased in April and May. Though contacts
noted smaller gains than during the previous reporting period, they attributed most of the slowdown
to the early Easter holiday drawing sales into March. Noticeable increases were seen in the home
improvement and lawn and garden categories as consumers prepared for summer. Auto sales also
continued to rise as buyers returned to showrooms to take advantage of favorable price and credit
terms. In addition, the pace of tourism activity increased with warmer weather and lower hotel rates
boosting demand. Retail contacts indicated that recent increases in income should translate into
higher sales with the momentum carrying forward into the fall season. Business spending. The rise in business spending moderated from the previous reporting
period. Inventory investment slowed. Contacts expect that manufacturers’ will do only marginal
restocking in the remainder of 2010, while retailers will rebuild inventories at least through fall.
Labor market conditions improved. Contacts noted increasing signs that employment gains could be
stronger in the second half of 2010. For example, they are seeing more job advertisements in
categories associated with companies that are expanding employment. By sector, manufacturers
continued to hire to fill skill-based needs and make use of previously idle capacity; and a large
staffing firm reported billable hours rose in large part due to increasingly higher demand for
industrial workers. Labor demand in professional and business services and retail trade also
increased. Unemployment in the District remained above the national rate, with the average
duration increasing. However, a contact noted that recently unemployed workers were re-entering
the labor force more quickly than the previously unemployed. Construction/real estate. Construction activity improved slightly from the previous
reporting period. Residential building benefitted to some degree from the homebuyer tax credit that
expired in April, but contacts noted that activity pulled back in May. They expect construction in
2010 as a whole to be just slightly better than in 2009. New residential development remained

 VII-2
minimal. Contacts indicated tight credit combined with the overhang of existing unimproved and
distressed lots are likely to deter development for an extended period. Single-family home prices
held steady, but downward pricing pressure continued to be strong for condominiums. Private
nonresidential construction remained weak, as the elevated inventory of vacant industrial and retail
properties continued to hold back demand for new construction. Public construction, however,
increased with contacts noting more activity in highway, education, and medical projects. Manufacturing. Manufacturing activity was strong in April led by the automotive, energy,
medical, and consumer goods industries, but the rise in production softened some in May. With
sales holding up in recent months, a contact in the auto industry indicated that production was
running at a steady pace. Capacity utilization in the steel industry leveled off, and a contact
indicated that it was likely to stay around its current level for the next 3-to-4 months as the pace of
inventory replenishment slows. For example, more manufacturers of industrial metals noted that
they were buying only what material they could immediately manufacture and sell. In contrast,
demand for heavy equipment was indicated to be finally turning a corner; dealers were rebuilding
inventories and have seen a significant increase in demand for rent-to-sell fleets. Mining and
agricultural equipment sales remained stronger than for construction equipment. Contacts indicated
that the pipeline for the export of capital equipment abroad, particularly to Asia and South America,
remains robust. The increase in residential construction in April led to an increase in activity for
housing-related manufacturers with shipments of wallboard in the District up slightly as a result. Banking/finance. Credit conditions improved, on balance, in April and May. Volatility
increased across financial markets, and short-term lending and corporate credit spreads widened due
in part to the uncertainty surrounding Europe’s fiscal crisis. However, a contact noted that the
financial system now has “more cushion” to absorb the higher cost of credit given the ongoing
improvement in U.S. economic conditions. In a sign of this effect, banking contacts again reported
better loan quality. Lending, particularly among large banks, increased with loan demand firming
and terms and standards beginning to open up a bit. Residential real estate financing improved with
secondary market appetite for jumbo and ARM mortgages beginning to return along with greater
availability of private mortgage insurance. Bank lending remained more limited for commercial
estate. However, private equity appetite for multifamily properties continued to be strong, and a
contact noted that real estate investment by European and Asian investors was also on the rise. Prices/costs. Price pressures were limited in April and May. Cost pressures from earlier
increases in steel and energy prices were reported by several contacts, although the prices of both

 VII-3
have decreased recently. Contacts noted that pressures from rising commodity prices were just
starting to be noticeable and that the volatility of commodity prices was a greater concern. Wage
pressures increased only modestly from the previous reporting period. Pass-through of cost
pressures to downstream prices remained minimal, with pricing power in most industries continuing
to be weak. Agriculture. Crop conditions in the District were slightly better than normal for this time of
year. Planting progress far exceeded that of a year ago with the exception of the southern portion of
Iowa where heavy precipitation slowed field work. The emergence of corn plants was far ahead of
average across most of the District, while soybean plant emergence was about typical. Rains were
timely for the most part, but a period of cooler weather slowed crop development until hot and
sunny weather gave a needed burst of energy to young plants in May. Corn and soybean prices
remained in the same range as the prior reporting period, while wheat prices rose. Cattle and hog
prices continued to rebound from last year’s lows, as animal numbers were constrained. Milk prices
stabilized after declines, remaining below break-even levels.

 VIII-1 Eighth District - St. Louis
Summary Economic activity in the Eighth District has increased modestly since our previous report.
Manufacturing activity increased on balance, while activity in the services sector was mixed. Retail and
auto sales in April and early May increased over a year ago. Residential real estate market conditions
improved throughout the District, while commercial and industrial market conditions continued to lag
behind. Overall lending activity at a sample of large District banks increased modestly in the first quarter
of 2010 compared with the fourth quarter of 2009.
Consumer Spending Contacts reported that retail sales in April and early May were up, on average, over year-earlier
levels. About 52 percent of the retailers saw increases in sales, while 36 percent saw decreases and 12
percent saw no changes. About 41 percent of the respondents noted that sales levels met their
expectations, 32 percent reported that sales were below expectations, and 27 percent reported that sales
were above expectations. Lower-priced items, apparel, and shoes were strong sellers, while higher-priced
items and gifts moved more slowly. About 61 percent of the contacts noted that inventories were at
desired levels, while 27 percent reported too-high inventories and 12 percent reported too-low
inventories. The sales outlook among the retailers for this summer was mostly optimistic. About 73
percent of the retailers expect sales to increase over 2009 levels, while 23 percent expect sales to decrease
and 4 percent expect sales to be similar to last year. Car dealers in the District reported that, compared with last year, sales in April and early May
were up, on average. About 64 percent of the car dealers surveyed saw increases in sales, while 9 percent
saw decreases and 27 percent saw no changes. About 33 percent of the car dealers noted that used car
sales had increased relative to new car sales, while 29 percent reported the opposite. Also, 25 percent
reported an increase in high-end vehicle sales relative to low-end vehicle sales, while 13 percent reported
the opposite. About 38 percent of contacts reported more acceptances of finance applications, but 17
percent reported more rejections. About half of the car dealers surveyed reported that their inventories

 VIII-2
were too low (mostly on new vehicles), while 8 percent reported that their inventories were too high. The
sales outlook among the car dealers for this summer was generally optimistic. About 67 percent of the
car dealers expect sales to increase over 2009 levels, but 12 percent expect sales to decrease. The
remaining 21 percent expect sales to be similar to last year.
Manufacturing and Other Business Activity Manufacturing activity has increased since our previous report. A greater number of contacts
reported new hires and plant openings than reported job layoffs and plant closings. Firms in the
fabricated metal product, office supplies, plastics product, and “hand and edge” tool manufacturing
industries reported plans to expand operations and hire new employees. A major firm in semiconductor
and related device manufacturing announced a significant amount of new hires along with the opening of
a new plant. Two smaller firms in primary metal manufacturing also announced plans to open a new
plant in the District and expand employment. In contrast, firms in synthetic dye and pigment
manufacturing and pharmaceutical and medicine manufacturing reported plans to lay off workers and
decrease operations. The District's services sector activity has been mixed since our previous report. A firm in
business support services announced job layoffs in response to decreased demand. A major electrical
utility announced layoffs at several power plants and support service facilities. Several regional
government agencies and education services providers announced job cuts in response to budgets cuts. In
contrast, a major firm in the telecommunications industry announced that it will lose significantly fewer
employees from a recent merger than previously expected. Additionally, a firm in the rail transportation
industry announced plans to make significant capital improvements to the rail network.
Real Estate and Construction Home sales increased in many areas of the Eighth District. Compared with the same period in
2009, April 2010 year-to-date home sales were up 25 percent in Louisville, 19 percent in Little Rock, and
9 percent in St. Louis. Home sales declined 2 percent in Memphis over the same period. Several contacts
noted, however, that part of the increase was likely the result of the expiring home buyer tax credit.

 VIII-3
Residential construction continued to improve throughout the District. April 2010 year-to-date single-
family housing permits increased in nearly all District metro areas compared with the same period in
2009. Permits increased 65 percent in Memphis, 56 percent in St. Louis, 39 percent in Little Rock, and
38 percent in Louisville. Commercial and industrial real estate market activity continued to be slow throughout the
District. Compared with the fourth quarter of 2009, first-quarter 2010 industrial vacancy rates decreased
in Memphis but increased in Little Rock, Louisville, and St. Louis. During the same period, the suburban
office vacancy rate increased in Little Rock, Louisville, and Memphis and remained the same in St. Louis.
The downtown office vacancy rate decreased in Little Rock but increased in Louisville, Memphis, and
St. Louis. Several contacts throughout the District reported that commercial and industrial construction is
at a standstill and is not expected to pick up until sometime in 2011.
Banking and Finance A survey of senior loan officers at a sample of District banks showed a modest increase in overall
lending activity in the first quarter of 2010 relative to the fourth quarter of 2009. During this period,
credit standards for commercial and industrial loans remained basically unchanged, while demand for
these loans varied slightly from moderately weaker to moderately stronger. Credit standards for
commercial real estate loans ranged from unchanged to tightened somewhat, while demand for these
loans was moderately stronger. Credit standards for consumer loans remained basically unchanged, while
demand was about the same. Credit standards for residential mortgages were unchanged, while demand
for these loans ranged from about the same to moderately stronger.
Agriculture and Natural Resources Recent rains throughout the District caused some fieldwork delays. Planting of corn, cotton, and
rice was ahead of its 5-year average pace, while planting of soybeans and sorghum was behind normal
pace in most District states. Emergence of these crops was ahead of normal in most cases. About two-
thirds of the winter wheat in Illinois and Missouri and at least 90 percent in the other District states were
rated in fair or better condition.

 IX-1 NINTH DISTRICT--MINNEAPOLIS The Ninth District economy grew at a steady pace since the last report. Consumer
spending, tourism, residential real estate and construction, services, manufacturing,
energy, mining and agriculture saw increases. Commercial real estate was flat at low
levels, and commercial construction activity was slow. Some signs of strengthening were
noted in labor markets. Wage increases were subdued, and overall prices remained level.
Consumer Spending and Tourism
Consumer spending increased moderately since the last report. A major Minneapolis-
based retailer reported that same-store sales in April and March combined were up 3
percent compared with a year earlier. A Minnesota-based manufacturer of outdoor
maintenance equipment reported a strong start to the spring selling season. Meanwhile, a
North Dakota mall reported that April sales were up about 3 percent, and a Montana
hardware store operator noted that recent sales were above year-ago levels. Retail sales
dipped slightly during April in some areas in part due to a relatively early Easter. For
example, traffic at two Minneapolis area malls was down 3 percent and 7 percent,
respectively, in April after increasing in March. Automotive dealers in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area reported that car sales and
maintenance and repair business were up from a year earlier. April new car sales were up
significantly higher from March in Montana and the Upper Peninsula of Michigan, but
were down slightly in western Wisconsin. Tourism contacts are optimistic for the summer season. An official in the Upper
Peninsula reported that tourism traffic was starting to look pretty good and a strong
summer season is expected. The number of nonresident visitors to Montana is expected to
increase 2 percent compared with a year ago after a flat year in 2009, according to state
tourism officials. Inquiries about summer tourism activities were strong in Duluth, Minn.
However, recent leisure bookings by a Minnesota travel agency were down during April
and May, and advanced bookings for the summer season were slow.
Construction and Real Estate
Commercial construction was weak. April nonresidential permits fell dramatically in
Sioux Falls, S.D. Several contacts in infrastructure building noted that the volume of
publicly funded work is declining. However, a commercial builder in northeastern
Minnesota and northwestern Wisconsin said that while most sectors were weak, demand

 IX-2
for industrial construction was stronger. Residential construction continued to rebound.
Housing permits in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area nearly doubled in value in May from
the previous year; April permits rose 20 percent in value in Sioux Falls. The number of
permits issued in and around Bismarck, N.D., increased from a year earlier. Commercial real estate was slow. The amount of unused space in the retail market
in Minneapolis increased by 135,000 square feet during the first quarter. An industry
contact in northern Wisconsin noted that nearly every sector in his area was overbuilt.
Residential real estate saw continued slow growth. April home prices increased in
Minneapolis-St. Paul for the fourth consecutive month, the longest period of increasing
prices since 2004. Brokers in Fargo, N.D., and Duluth, Minn., noted increased activity in
April as home buyers took advantage of the federal tax credit before its expiration.
Contacts around the District reported increased housing short sales for distressed
properties.
Services
Contacts from various services firms noted a recent increase in business. Preliminary
results of the Minneapolis Fed’s annual survey of professional services companies in
May showed that sales revenue, space usage, and profits are expected to increase over the
next year. A small North Dakota information technology firm commented that the
“outlook is good.”
Manufacturing
Manufacturing output was up since the last report. An April survey of purchasing
managers by Creighton University (Omaha, Neb.) showed that manufacturing activity
increased significantly in Minnesota and South Dakota and increased slightly in North
Dakota. A computer component plant in western Wisconsin planned to increase capital
expenditures significantly in 2010. An expansion of a food processing facility is under
way in North Dakota.
Energy and Mining
Activity in the energy and mining sectors increased since the last report. Late May oil
exploration increased from early April. Wind energy projects continued to be planned and
built in the western portion of the district. Iron ore production in Minnesota increased
about 5 percent in April from March.

 IX-3
Agriculture
Agricultural activity increased. Across most of the District, crops were planted earlier than
the five-year average and are emerging at a faster pace. However, the Minneapolis Fed’s
first-quarter (April) survey of agricultural credit conditions indicated that lenders expect
overall agricultural income and capital spending to decrease in the second quarter.
Employment, Wages and Prices
Some signs of strengthening were noted in labor markets. In Minnesota, a shoe manufacturer
recently announced plans to hire up to 80 more workers, and a manufacturer of windows and
doors increased the workweek for employees after reducing their time during the economic
downturn. About three-quarters of respondents to a Minneapolis Fed survey of temporary
employment firms in Minnesota, North Dakota, and Wisconsin reported an increase in the
number of customers and employed workers. Placements at industrial firms showed the
largest increase. At a Montana employment office, more businesses were looking to hire
employees, but overall hiring activity remained relatively slow. Despite signs of improvement, overall labor markets remained weak. In Montana,
a recent job fair attracted hundreds of job seekers for openings at almost 50 companies. A
wood furniture factory and chain of stores in Montana recently went out of business,
affecting over 60 workers statewide. Almost 50 workers were laid off by a defense
contractor in Minnesota. Wage increases were subdued. According to respondents to a recent St. Cloud
(Minn.) Area Business Outlook Survey, only 18 percent expect to increase employee
compensation at their companies over the next six months. In last year’s survey, 21
percent expected to increase compensation. Several temporary staffing firms noted flat to
lower wages. The majority of respondents from the Minneapolis Fed’s preliminary
survey of professional business services firms indicated no increases in wages for the
next year. A nurses union in Minneapolis-St. Paul recently approved a one-day strike in
response to negotiations with area hospitals, which had proposed to change work rules,
cut pensions, and reduce health benefits. Overall prices remained level. Some price pressures were noted in materials for
large construction projects; however, in recent weeks, prices for oil, copper, and some
steel products decreased. In addition, fertilizer prices were down from a year ago.

 X-1 TENTH DISTRICT - KANSAS CITY The Tenth District economy grew modestly since the last survey with expectations of
further improvement in the coming months. Consumer sales edged up at retail stores and auto
dealerships, and District contacts were hopeful that rising consumer confidence would boost
future sales. Residential real estate activity improved slightly, but real estate agents expected
expiring tax credits to weigh on the housing rebound. While the commercial real estate market
remained stressed, District contacts noted a slight improvement in leasing activity.
Manufacturing activity expanded modestly, transportation activity strengthened, and factory
managers expected further production gains. Bankers reported improved expectations for loan
quality, and credit standards were generally unchanged. Energy activity expanded further as oil
and natural gas production increased. Agricultural conditions improved with higher livestock
profits and farmland values. Despite higher input prices, retail prices and wage pressures
remained low, and few firms planned to pass through additional costs to consumers. Consumer Spending. Consumer spending continued to improve, and many contacts
expected further gains in retail sales. Spurred by lower prices and promotional advertising,
retailers reported a rise in sales led by summer apparel items and lower-priced appliances. Auto
dealers reported strong demand for used vehicles, which helped boost auto sales and reduce
vehicle inventories. Some contacts felt rising consumer confidence would encourage future auto
sales. Restaurant sales declined with fewer diners and a flat average check amount. With the
onset of seasonal travel, tourism activity and hotel occupancy rose. Further improvements in the
tourism and hotel industries were expected as summer travel picks up. Real Estate and Construction. Residential real estate activity improved slightly in
April and May, while the decline in commercial real estate activity slowed. Lower priced single-
family homes sold well in April as buyers rushed to take advantage of tax credits. In contrast,
sales of higher-priced homes slowed, contributing to a rise in home inventories. Real estate
agents expected home sales to fall in the coming months due to expiring tax credits and weak job
growth in some areas of the District. After rising in the last survey period, residential

 X-2
construction activity held steady. Mortgage lending activity rose with new home purchases, and
loan refinancing volumes increased with lower mortgage rates. Commercial real estate activity
remained weak and below year-ago levels. However, lower rents appeared to slow the rise in
vacancy rates and raise absorption rates since the last survey period. District contacts expected
leasing activity to rise faster than sales activity for commercial property in the coming months.
Commercial construction activity continued to decline due in part to difficulty accessing credit. Manufacturing and Other Business Activity. Manufacturing activity grew at a modest
pace in April and May while transportation firms reported sustained growth. After several
months of solid gains, the pace of production moderated at both durable and non-durable goods
producing plants. The volume of new orders, order backlogs, and shipments edged down from
March levels while finished goods inventories rose slightly. Employment levels were stable and
fewer firms planned to increase payrolls. Still, manufacturing activity strengthened compared to
a year ago, and more plant managers expected factory production to ramp up in the next six
months. Some District manufacturers noted an increase in supplier delivery times, and sales
activity in the transportation sector rose further. Most transportation firms anticipated the
rebound would continue through the summer. Some companies were having difficulty finding
qualified drivers, and a few contacts raised concerns about future capacity constraints. The high-
tech industry reported a slight uptick in sales activity, partly due to an increase in government
contracts. Banking. Bankers reported steady loan demand, higher deposits, and an improved
outlook for loan quality. Overall loan demand was essentially unchanged, following a series of
declines over the last year. Demand for commercial and industrial loans was flat, while demand
for commercial real estate loans and residential real estate loans increased moderately. Consumer
installment loans continued to trend downward. Credit standards were generally unchanged.
Slightly more bankers reported an improvement in loan quality from one year ago than reported
a deterioration. Also, for the first time since late 2007, respondents expected stable rather than
declining loan quality over the next six months. Deposits increased moderately after showing no
change in the previous three surveys.

 X-3 Energy. Energy production expanded since the last survey period, and additional gains
were expected in the coming months. The number of active drilling rigs in the District rose
further, primarily due to expansion in Oklahoma and New Mexico. Some firms reported
difficulty finding qualified workers, especially engineers. Crude oil prices were expected to rise
due to an uptick in demand from the industrial sector and higher gasoline use for summer travel.
Since the last survey, fewer contacts expected further declines in natural gas prices. However,
several natural gas producers were concerned that prices would remain low due to excess supply.
With increased production and limited demand, supplies at natural gas storage facilities grew at a
record pace. Though District coal production slowed in April and May, year-to-date volumes
approached 2009 levels. Agriculture. Agricultural conditions improved since the last survey period. Overall, the
winter wheat crop was reported in good condition. However, prolonged cool, wet weather
promoted wheat crop diseases, which could reduce yields in some areas of Nebraska, Kansas and
Oklahoma. Corn planting was almost complete while soybean planting was slightly behind
schedule. Crop prices were little changed since the last survey period, but hog and cattle prices
rose significantly with further contractions in supplies. Improved incomes among livestock
producers contributed to a rise in District ranchland values. Cropland values also increased with
strong farmer demand and nonfarm investor interest. Agricultural lenders reported a slight
decline in loan repayment rates, but loan renewals and extensions held steady. Wages and Prices. Wage and retail price pressures remained low in April and May;
however, input prices rose for some District firms. District labor markets improved slightly and
contacts generally reported little wage pressure and few problems finding qualified workers.
After falling in April and May, retail prices were expected to dip further in the coming months,
and builders expected lumber prices to fall from their recent spike. However, materials prices,
especially steel, rose sharply for District manufacturers. In addition, transportation companies
noted rising fuel costs, and restaurant owners paid higher food prices. Despite rising input costs,
most District contacts were reluctant to increase selling prices.

 XI-1 ELEVENTH DISTRICT—DALLAS Business conditions continued to improve in the Eleventh District. Activity in manufacturing,
staffing services, transportation services, housing and energy grew modestly. Retail sales were flat to
slightly down but in line with retailers’ expectations during the reporting period. While outlooks remained
positive, contacts from some industries noted concerns about how the European debt crisis and recent
stock market volatility would affect future business. Prices Most contacts said prices were holding steady, although some paper, fabricated metals,
and aircraft and parts manufacturers reported slight increases in selling prices. Contacts at department
stores said less discounting was taking place. Input and raw material costs were generally stable, but there
were reports of an uptick in the cost of lumber, food, engineered metal products, linerboard, steel and
some industrial metals. Firms’ ability to pass on these cost increases remained limited. Crude oil prices dropped from $85 per barrel in early April to near $70 in late May. Natural gas
prices were flat during the reporting period. Sharp increases in the price of petrochemicals such as
ethylene and propylene seen earlier are reversing as ethylene plants come back online and refineries
increase utilization rates. Declining prices have spurred export demand for U.S. petrochemicals and
related products. Labor Market Employment levels held steady at several respondent firms and there were a few
reports of hiring activity. Staffing firms continued to cite increased demand for their services, and some
contacts in transportation services, automotive sales, transportation and construction-related
manufacturing said they had either added a few employees or planned on hiring additional workers. Wage
pressures remained subdued, with the exception of the airline industry. Many firms are continuing with
salary or 401(k) contribution freezes, although a few noted that they planned on giving small pay
increases this year. In addition, staffing firms reported that pay rates were stable. Manufacturing Most construction-related manufacturers said demand ticked up from low
levels. Orders from the public sector and homebuilding industry have improved but demand for
commercial construction materials remains weak. A few contacts said they were slowly increasing work
hours or capacity utilization rates. Although there is still caution among contacts, outlooks were slightly
more optimistic than the last report. Fabricated metals producers cited continued increases in demand, and
reported that large government-related projects have boosted the sales outlook for the next three months. Some high-tech manufacturers noted slight easing in export demand due to the European fiscal
crisis, while others said orders continued to grow at a consistently strong pace. Inventories were reported
to be under control and one semiconductor respondent said they were able to increase inventories to

 XI-2
desired levels. Most respondents remain optimistic that demand will be strong over the next six months
but noted that the outlook has become more uncertain due to fiscal problems in Europe. Producers of trailers said continued strength in demand has boosted the outlook over the next
three months. Manufacturers of aircrafts and parts said orders from the commercial and general aviation
industry have improved, while demand for government and military aircraft remains weak. An aircraft
repair and maintenance firm said demand strengthened over the past month, and is expected to rise further
over the next three months. Reports from paper manufacturers were mixed. Most respondents reported strong demand while
one corrugated box manufacturer noted a decline in orders. Food producers noted an increase in orders.
Inventories are at desired levels but some food manufacturers said stocking up for certain items has been
an issue due to the recent acceleration in demand. Petrochemical producers cited improved domestic demand for most products except for polyvinyl
chloride, which is tied to commercial and residential construction. Demand for oil products is above year-
ago levels, and refinery capacity utilization rates have risen from the low 80 percent range in early April
to the high 80s in late May. Refinery margins have improved and are at their highest levels for the year. Retail Sales Retail activity was flat to slightly down but in line with contacts’ expectations
during the reporting period. Contacts say the decline in sales was largely due to Easter pulling sales
forward into March. Department store sales were flat despite strong demand for apparel and accessories.
Most contacts say Texas sales are faring slightly better than the national average, and same-store sales are
on track to hit low single-digit nominal growth this year. The outlook is for gradual improvement for the
remainder of the year, with some concern over the impact of Europe’s fiscal situation on consumer
confidence. Automobile dealers said sales ticked up since the last report. Inventories remain lean. Prices have
been inching upwards due to some pullback in incentives introduced earlier. Contacts expect demand will
gradually improve through the end of the year. Services Staffing firms say demand remains strong and widespread across sectors. Orders are
mostly for contract work but assignments are becoming longer in length and temp-to-hire placements
continue to pick up pace. Sustained growth in demand has led contacts to expand staff levels and has
boosted the near-term outlook. Accounting firms note demand remains flat and the outlook continues to
be cautiously optimistic. Law firms report weak demand for most types of legal services, with the
exception of a slight pickup in foreclosure-related activity. Contacts say that they will have fewer summer
clerkships than normal due to sluggish demand. Demand for transportation services was positive suggesting further improvement in overall
economic conditions. Intermodal cargo volumes were flat over the past month but are slightly up from

 XI-3
three months and year-ago levels. Shipping firms say large freight volumes continued to grow strongly
but small parcel shipping volumes were flat over the reporting period. Railroads reported a significant and
broad-based increase in shipments, and noted that the outlook is more upbeat than last time. Airlines cited
further improvement in demand, with leisure travel seeing continued growth and business travel
recovering. Contacts say domestic travel is rebounding but is not as strong as international demand. The
outlook is positive as revenues have improved due to fare increases and advance bookings are holding up
well. Construction and Real Estate Housing demand continued to improve. Realtors reported
positive gains in home sales as the homebuyer tax credit contributed greatly to a wave of buying. Builders
increased starts due to tight new home inventories and improved sales activity. Prices were steady to
slightly higher, according to respondents. Still outlooks reflect uncertainty about the remainder of the year
and many contacts expect flat demand in the second half. Apartment markets continue to fare better than expected, with occupancy and rents improving in
most Texas metros. While concessions are ongoing, contacts noted they are not as widespread as earlier in
the year. Commercial real estate contacts said that although conditions remain weak, there are signs that
the sector is firming. Leases and property sales have picked up as rents and prices have come down. Some
contacts said there were a few instances of property prices being “bid up” due to the large amount of
interested buyers versus the low amount of quality properties for sale. Despite the improvement, the large
amount of space available is expected to keep commercial construction subdued for the remainder of this
year. Financial Services Overall loan demand softened during the reporting period. There is more
commercial and industrial loan activity in the pipeline but consumer loan demand outside of credit cards
remains sluggish. Contacts report that they are turning down many potential mortgage borrowers due to
poor credit. Credit standards remain tight and loan pricing is unchanged. Some contacts reported an
increased inflow of deposits, which they attributed to the unease arising from recent stock market
volatility. Although contacts are relieved that the Federal Reserve will retain regulatory oversight over
state member banks, there continues to be concern regarding other impending regulation changes. The
outlook is slightly optimistic with some concern about the impact of the Greek credit crisis. Energy The rig count rose further over the reporting period and most of the increase was in oil-
directed drilling. Even with the drop in oil prices from $85 to $70 per barrel, oil-directed projects remain
profitable. In contrast, at $4 per mmbtu prices do not justify unhedged shale gas drilling. Hence, as
current hedges expire, contacts say that there will likely be a slowdown in gas-directed drilling.

 XI-4 Agriculture Lack of rainfall and high winds dried out the topsoil in some areas but recent rains
have restored much of the lost moisture. Spring planting is moving ahead of its normal pace, and crop
conditions are significantly better than last year. Demand for several agricultural products has improved
and exports of cotton, rice and grains are up from last year. Cattle and cotton prices have risen and remain
strong, while grain prices have weakened slightly.

 XII-1 TWELFTH DISTRICT–SAN FRANCISCO
Summary The Twelfth District economy posted further modest improvement during the reporting period of
early April through the end of May. Despite rising prices for some non-oil commodities, price increases
for final goods and services remained restrained, and upward wage pressures were largely absent.
Demand for retail items and services continued to strengthen, but sales remain well below pre-recession
levels. Manufacturing activity in the District continued to firm, with additional improvement noted in
sectors such as wood products and metal fabrication, which have been among those most troubled.
Agricultural producers reported solid sales, while demand was mixed for providers of natural resource
products. Demand for housing appeared to hold largely steady, but conditions in commercial real estate
weakened further. Banking contacts reported stable to slightly increased lending activity.
Wages and Prices Upward price pressures remained limited on net during the reporting period. While the price of
oil came down in recent weeks, the prices of other selected commodities, such as steel, copper, and
concrete, rose. Additionally, contacts continued to report price increases for transportation services.
Given the weak overall level of demand, however, the final prices for a wide variety of retail items and
services continued to be held down. Upward wage pressures were largely absent, although reports continued to point to notable
increases in employee benefit costs. Compensation gains remained constrained by high unemployment
and limited hiring throughout the District. Compared to the same period a year ago, the majority of
respondents expect wages to remain largely stable or rise slightly in the second half of 2010, while they
anticipate that benefit costs, especially for health insurance, will increase more significantly.
Retail Trade and Services Retail sales remained somewhat lackluster on net but continued to improve modestly. Both
traditional department stores and discount chains reported additional increases in sales, and although
consumers remained focused on necessities, contacts noted further increases in demand for some

 XII-2
nonessential items and higher-priced options. Sales remained strong for grocers and continued to
improve for sellers of furniture and household appliances. Similarly, retailers of home remodeling
supplies and equipment saw robust levels of activity. Sales of new automobiles improved a bit further
during the reporting period, although contacts cautioned that demand has slipped somewhat in recent
weeks. Demand for services showed further signs of improvement but remained weak overall. Providers
of health-care services reported relatively steady levels of activity, while energy utilities reported
increased demand from households and from firms in selected industries, such as technology and wood
products. Similarly, restaurants and other food-service firms noted continued modest increases in
demand. Sales remained sluggish for providers of professional and media services. Conditions continued
to improve in the tourism and leisure sector: Contacts in many of the District’s major markets reported
increases in visitor volumes and hotel occupancy rates, and, notably, reports pointed to positive
developments in business travel and convention activity.
Manufacturing District manufacturing activity picked up further on balance during the reporting period of early
April through the end of May. Conditions continued to improve for manufacturers of semiconductors and
other information technology products, with balanced inventories and high levels of capacity utilization
noted. An extensive order backlog generally held production rates at a steady pace for makers of
commercial aircraft and parts, although new orders continued to be limited. Capacity utilization remained
at very low levels for companies in the metal fabrication and wood product sectors, but further modest
improvement in demand was reported. Food manufacturers witnessed continued growth in new orders
and sales with high levels of capacity utilization.
Agriculture and Resource-related Industries Demand stayed solid for agricultural producers but was mixed for extractors of natural resources
used for energy production. Sales held largely steady for a variety of crop and livestock products, and
reports from agricultural contacts indicated little change in input costs. Oil extraction activity decreased

 XII-3
somewhat in recent weeks as the price of oil declined. Meanwhile, despite high levels of inventory,
extraction of natural gas increased modestly as demand showed signs of firming.
Real Estate and Construction Demand for housing in the District appeared to be little changed from the previous period, while
demand for commercial real estate deteriorated a bit further. Home prices continued to edge up in some
parts of the District, and although the pace of home sales remained mixed across areas, it appeared largely
stable on net. However, contacts continued to note that the limited availability of nonconforming
“jumbo” loans has restricted sales of higher-priced homes in some areas. Scattered reports pointed to
some modest improvements in residential construction, most notably in the repair and remodel sector.
Conditions worsened somewhat further in commercial real estate markets, with vacancy rates for office
and industrial space edging up in many parts of the District. However, contacts reported continued
improvements in leasing activity for some market segments of the District as tenants seek to secure
favorable terms.
Financial Institutions Reports from District banking contacts indicated that loan demand was largely stable or slightly
up compared with previous reporting periods. Businesses’ cautious attitudes towards capital spending
continued to restrain commercial and industrial loan volumes; however, reports indicated a pickup in loan
demand coming from selected businesses that are planning to replace worn or outdated equipment and
software. Demand for consumer loans remained weak on net. Lending standards continued to be
relatively restrictive for consumer and business lending, although reports suggested that credit quality
may be stabilizing. Going forward, continued modest improvement in commercial and industrial loan
demand seems likely; overall, respondents expect capital spending in equipment and software to increase
further in the second half of 2010, although capital spending in structures is anticipated to remain
lackluster.

