 For use at 2:00 p.m., E.D.T. Wednesday July 17, 2013
Summary of Commentary on ____________________ Current Economic Conditions By Federal Reserve District July 2013

SUMMARY OF COMMENTARY ON CURRENT ECONOMIC CONDITIONS BY FEDERAL RESERVE DISTRICTS JULY 2013

 TABLE OF CONTENTS
SUMMARY ............................................................................................................. i
First District – Boston ...........................................................................................I-1
Second District – New York ............................................................................... II-1
Third District – Philadelphia.............................................................................. III-1
Fourth District – Cleveland................................................................................IV-1
Fifth District – Richmond ................................................................................... V-1
Sixth District – Atlanta ......................................................................................VI-1
Seventh District – Chicago .............................................................................. VII-1
Eighth District – St. Louis............................................................................... VIII-1
Ninth District – Minneapolis..............................................................................IX-1
Tenth District – Kansas City ............................................................................... X-1
Eleventh District – Dallas ..................................................................................XI-1
Twelfth District – San Francisco...................................................................... XII-1

 i
  Summary* Reports from the twelve Federal Reserve Districts indicate that overall economic activity
continued to increase at a modest to moderate pace since the previous survey. Manufacturing
expanded in most Districts since the previous report, with many Districts reporting increases in
new orders, shipments, or production. Most Districts noted that overall consumer spending and
auto sales increased during the reporting period. Activity in a wide variety of nonfinancial
services was stable or increased in most reporting Districts. Transportation was stable or
increased in several Districts. Tourism remained strong in some reporting Districts, although
several Districts noted softness from bad weather. Residential real estate and construction
activity increased at a moderate to strong pace in all reporting Districts. Commercial real estate
market conditions and construction continued to improve across the Districts. Banking
conditions generally improved across the Districts. Credit quality improved, while credit
standards remained largely unchanged. Agricultural conditions were mixed, as weather patterns
varied, while extraction was generally stable or increased. Hiring held steady or increased at a measured pace in most Districts, with some contacts
noting reluctance to hire permanent or full-time workers. Wage pressures generally remained
contained, although some Districts reported modest or moderate wage growth in some sectors.
Price pressures for inputs and final goods remained stable or modest.
                                                            
* Prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis and based on information collected on or before July 8, 2013.
This document summarizes comments received from business and other contacts outside the Federal Reserve
System and is not a commentary on the views of Federal Reserve officials.
 

 ii
 
Manufacturing and Other Business Activity Manufacturing increased in most Districts since the previous survey. The exception was
Kansas City, which noted a slight contraction, with storms retarding some activity. Most
Districts reported stable or increasing new orders, shipments, and production. Reports from
contacts in the Cleveland, Chicago, and St. Louis Districts indicated moderate growth in
manufacturing. The Minneapolis District further noted that more manufacturing firms increased
activity than in the previous report; the Boston, New York, Richmond, Atlanta, and San
Francisco Districts noted that the uptick was modest; and the Philadelphia and Dallas Districts
noted slight improvements. Firms in the Boston, Philadelphia, and San Francisco Districts were
broadly optimistic about prospects for the second half of 2013, while manufacturers in the
Richmond District were cautiously optimistic; contacts expressed mixed outlooks in the Dallas
District, and contacts in the Cleveland and Atlanta District do not expect future production to be
as high as previously projected. Strong demand in residential construction continued to stimulate the manufacturing
sector in several Districts. Home-building suppliers in the Philadelphia and Cleveland Districts
reported strong activity. Wood product manufacturers expanded operations and increased
production in the St. Louis and San Francisco Districts. A cement producer in the Dallas District
saw a very strong market. Demand for construction equipment picked up in the Chicago District. Automobile manufacturing remained a source of strength in the Chicago, St. Louis and
Minneapolis Districts. Steel and metal production increased in several Districts, including
Philadelphia, Chicago, Minneapolis, Dallas, and San Francisco. Fabricated metal manufacturers
in the Philadelphia and Dallas Districts reported gains. Primary metal production was steady at
strong levels in the Dallas District, while reports on primary metal orders in the Philadelphia
 

 iii
 
District were mixed. Specialty metal manufacturers in Chicago saw modest improvement in
demand. The metal-forming business in Minneapolis is having a very strong year. Gains were
reported by petroleum refining manufacturers in the St. Louis and Dallas Districts. Reports on
semiconductor orders in the Dallas District were mixed, and semiconductor firms in the San
Francisco District said sales increased substantially. Electronic equipment firms in the
Philadelphia District reported lower activity. Food producers in the Philadelphia and Kansas City
Districts saw weaker activity, while demand for heavy equipment in the Chicago District
remained soft. Nonfinancial services activity was steady or increased in the New York, Philadelphia,
Richmond, St. Louis, Minneapolis, and Dallas Districts. Transportation services were stable in
the Richmond and Kansas City Districts, increased in the Cleveland, Atlanta, and Dallas
Districts, and contracted in the St. Louis District. Consulting service firms in the Boston,
St. Louis, and Minneapolis Districts have experienced increased demand and expanded
operations since the previous reporting period. Accounting service contacts in the Richmond and
Dallas Districts saw strong demand, while telecommunication service providers in the Richmond
and St. Louis District reported increased activity. High-tech service firms in the Kansas City
District and a software design firm in the Richmond District saw rising revenues, and software
developers were in high demand in the San Francisco District.
Consumer Spending and Tourism Most Districts noted that overall consumer spending increased during the reporting
period. Reports from the Boston, Chicago, Philadelphia, Richmond, Atlanta, St. Louis,
Minneapolis, and San Francisco Districts indicated modest or moderate growth in retail
spending, while reports from the Cleveland, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts indicated steady to
 

 iv
 
slightly higher sales. The New York District noted that retail sales in May and June had softened.
Retailers in the New York, Cleveland, Atlanta, and St. Louis Districts reported that sales had not
met expectations. Contacts in the New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, and Atlanta
Districts also noted that weather conditions constrained retail activity. Demand for tech products
was strong or increased in the Boston and San Francisco Districts. The Kansas City District
reported that appliance purchases were slow, while the Richmond District reported that big ticket
item sales were high. Inventories were at desired levels or slightly high in the New York and
Cleveland Districts, and remained tight in the Chicago District. The outlook among retailers was
positive in the Cleveland, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts and cautiously optimistic in the
St. Louis District. Most Districts that reported on automobile sales noted increased sales during the
reporting period. Strong sales were reported in the Philadelphia, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago,
and San Francisco Districts. Reports from the Cleveland, St. Louis, Minneapolis, and Kansas
City Districts indicated steady to moderate sales growth, and contacts in the Dallas District
reported that sales were slightly softer than the previous reporting period, although still strong.
New car sales increased in the St. Louis and San Francisco Districts, while they held steady at
favorable levels relative to the same period last year in the New York District. Used car sales
increased in the Cleveland, Richmond, St. Louis, and San Francisco Districts. Auto dealers in the
Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, and Minneapolis Districts reported strong sales for pick-up
trucks. The Kansas City and Cleveland Districts expressed an optimistic outlook for future sales. Travel and tourism increased in the Boston, Philadelphia, Richmond, Atlanta, Kansas
City, and Dallas Districts. The New York District noted that tourism had been mixed but fairly
robust since the previous report. San Francisco also reported that travel and tourism was mixed
 

 v
 
across the District. Weather conditions affected tourism in some areas of the Boston,
Philadelphia, and Minneapolis Districts.
Real Estate and Construction Residential real estate activity increased at a moderate to strong pace in most Districts.
Most Districts reported increases in home sales. Cleveland noted that June sales of single-family
homes were down compared with earlier in the spring but up from last year. Boston, New York,
Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco noted strong residential real estate markets.
Home prices increased throughout the majority of the reporting Districts. Boston, New York,
Richmond, Atlanta, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas noted low or declining home
inventories and upward pressures on home prices in some areas. Residential construction activity
also improved moderately across the Districts, and contacts in New York, Philadelphia, Chicago,
Minneapolis, Dallas, and San Francisco reported faster growth in multi-family construction, in
particular. Commercial real estate market conditions continued to improve across most Districts.
New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, and San Francisco
reported modest to moderate improvements in nonresidential real estate activity. Dallas reported
strong growth in leasing activity for office and industrial space. Boston and Richmond reported
that commercial real estate conditions were holding steady or improving, depending on location.
Nonresidential construction activity was stable or increased throughout the nation. Philadelphia,
Atlanta, and Richmond reported that commercial construction was flat to slightly up, while
Cleveland, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, and Dallas noted improvements in commercial
construction.
 

 vi
 
Banking and Finance Reports on banking conditions were generally positive across the Districts. Overall loan
demand increased modestly across most reporting Districts. New York District bankers reported
mixed but generally steady loan demand. Some bankers in the Cleveland, Chicago, and Dallas
Districts noted competitive pressures to reduce loan pricing. Bankers in the Philadelphia,
Richmond, Cleveland, Atlanta, and Chicago Districts noted a shift toward new home mortgages
and away from refinancing (which was led, in part, by increases in interest rates). Reports on credit quality indicated slight to moderate improvements across the reporting
Districts. Improvements were noted by the New York, Philadelphia, Kansas City, and Dallas
Districts. Credit standards remained largely unchanged, although some bankers in the Atlanta
and Philadelphia Districts noted increased competition to ease credit standards.
Agriculture and Natural Resource Industries Agricultural conditions varied across the Districts because of differing weather
conditions. Crop conditions improved in the Chicago and St. Louis Districts, while agricultural
production increased in the San Francisco District and is expected to improve in the Kansas City
District. Extremely wet conditions delayed planting and even resulted in some farmers in the
Richmond and Minneapolis Districts planting soybeans instead of corn. Excessive rains in the
Richmond District also damaged the wheat crop in some areas. Contacts noted persistent drought
conditions in some areas of the Kansas City and San Francisco Districts and in most of the
Dallas District. Winter wheat harvest output yields were highly variable because of crop damage
from freezing and drought in the Dallas and Kansas City Districts. The condition of pastureland
in the Atlanta and St. Louis Districts improved since the previous report.
 

 vii
  Coal production was lower compared with the same time last year for the Cleveland,
St. Louis, and Richmond Districts. Energy activity remained robust or steady at high levels in the
Atlanta and Dallas District. Natural gas production was stable in the Cleveland District and
continued to increase in the Richmond District. Drilling declined in the Cleveland District, was
flat in the Kansas City District, and increased in the Richmond District. Oil and gas exploration
was up slightly in the Minneapolis District. Mining was flat in the Kansas City District,
weakened in the Chicago District, and was sluggish in the Minneapolis District.
Employment, Wages, and Prices Hiring held steady or increased at a measured pace in most Districts. Contacts in the
Philadelphia, Richmond, and Chicago Districts were cautious or reluctant to hire permanent or
full-time staff. The Richmond and Chicago Districts noted relatively stronger demand for part-
time workers. Transportation contacts in the Cleveland, Atlanta, and Kansas City Districts noted
some difficulty finding qualified drivers. Contacts in the New York, Richmond, and San
Francisco Districts reported high demand for technology workers. Most Districts reported that wage pressures remained limited or contained. The Chicago
and Minneapolis Districts reported moderate wage pressures. The Chicago District noted that
rising healthcare and other benefit costs were being passed onto employees. Contacts in the New
York and San Francisco Districts noted that competition for technology workers had an effect on
salaries. The Richmond District noted that wage growth picked up in the manufacturing sector,
remained robust at non-retail establishments, and flattened at retail businesses. Overall consumer and input price pressures remained stable or modest in most reporting
Districts, although some Districts noted price increases. Most notably, the Cleveland, Atlanta,
Chicago, Minneapolis, and San Francisco Districts noted upward pressures on the prices of
 

 viii
 
construction materials. The Philadelphia and Richmond Districts reported price increases for raw
materials and finished goods among manufacturers. The New York District reported that input
price pressures have abated further in manufacturing but remained widespread in services. Retail
prices remained steady in the Boston, New York, Cleveland, Kansas City, and Dallas District,
while retail price growth slowed in the Richmond District and wholesale retail prices increased
in the Chicago District.
 

 I-1 FIRST DISTRICT – BOSTON Economic activity in the First District continues to expand at a moderate pace, according to
business contacts. Retailers, tourism contacts, manufacturers and consulting and advertising contacts all
report modest increases in sales. Commercial real estate conditions are improving or holding steady,
depending on location. Residential real estate contacts report increases in both house prices and sales.
Overall prices are rising at a modest pace, generally in line with cost increases. Most businesses are
holding employment steady, with substantial staffing changes only at firms experiencing significant
increases or decreases in sales. Contacts generally expect the recent trend of moderate growth to
continue.
Retail and Tourism Retailers contacted for this round report year-over-year comp-store sales increases ranging
between 1 percent and 5 percent. One contact had a low single digit decrease, but notes that sales trends
have been improving. Demand is strong for all apparel categories, furniture, sporting goods, and mobile
technology. Consumer sentiment continues to pick up, albeit very slowly, and prices at the wholesale and
retail levels remain steady. All of the contacts expect continued slow-growth of the U.S. economy. Through May, hotel revenues are up 1.5 percent year-over-year. Restaurant revenues are up 2
percent, slightly better than expected. Contacts attribute these increases to strong corporate business travel
and entertaining. There is some softness in domestic leisure travel, as attendance at museums and other
attractions is below expectations. Some of this decrease might be due to record-setting rainfall in New
England during June. Contacts expect that leisure travel will increase during the summer travel season.
Manufacturing and Related Services Most of the 13 manufacturers contacted in this round report modest increases in sales. The one
firm to report a significant decline in sales, a manufacturer of electric motors and brakes, could not
pinpoint any specific reason for the weakness. Europe remains a source of weakness and China continues
to inject volatility for manufacturing exports. One contact reports that sales in China of its products going
into new commercial construction were up 46 percent in the second quarter. Only one contact, a
manufacturer of textile and printing equipment, specifically mentions the evolving macroeconomic policy
picture as an issue, saying that everything depends on what happens to interest rates. All but one of our
contacts say that their outlook is for stable or higher sales going forward, but none report having raised
their forecasts in the recent months. Only one of our contacts cites significant staff reductions, the same firm that notes declining
sales. That said, the only firms hiring in any significant way are rapidly growing companies in the
technology and life science areas. Most of our contacts, 8 of 13, report no change in employment.

 I-2 All of our contacts, including the one with declining sales, say that their investment plans have
not changed and most report the same or higher levels of investment for 2013 as for 2012. Our contact at
the firm with declining sales says that they try not to let the business cycle affect investment decisions as,
“A good investment is a good investment.” As far as pricing is concerned, no one reports anything out of the ordinary. Firms that need to
raise prices, typically, appear to be able to do so; some raw materials prices, like copper, are less of an
issue than they were a year ago.
Selected Business Services Consulting and advertising contacts in the First District report a generally positive, but not
exuberant, second quarter. Economic consulting has experienced very strong demand due to growth of
high-stakes litigation. Healthcare and pharmaceuticals consulting contacts gave mixed reports, with
several contacts reporting robust demand for services related to process efficiency, effectiveness analytics
and marketing support, while another reports a slowdown in IT adoption. Strategy consultants had mixed
results, with large firms faring better than smaller firms, largely due to greater exposure to the recently
booming private equity industry. Marketing and advertising contacts report a slight uptick in growth from
an already strong first quarter. Finally, a government contractor reports flat revenue. Contacts report either no cost growth or costs rising roughly in line with 2 percent inflation, with
the exception of one firm whose health and business insurance premiums rose 8 percent to 10 percent on
an annual basis. Firms were roughly split between those facing pressure to keep rates flat and those with
robust enough demand to institute rate hikes of 3 percent to 5 percent on an annual basis. About half of
contacts report no net hiring, with the others increasing their workforces by 3 percent to 5 percent, mostly
through larger incoming classes of entry-level workers beginning this summer. Firms reporting no net
hiring were split between those who are waiting for stronger demand to justify hiring and those who hired
rapidly in the recent past and are trying to adjust to their new size. Aside from a government contractor who is too uncertain about the future of fiscal policy to offer
any clear forecast, contacts expect growth to either pick up or remain strong for the rest of the year. Aside
from the government contractor, contacts were minimally concerned about fiscal issues, the European
debt crisis, and the state of the macro economy.
Commercial Real Estate Commercial real estate markets in the First District are, for the most part, maintaining a solid
footing. In Boston, rents on prime retail properties continue to climb and office rents are described as
steady or rising, depending on location. Office leasing volume is holding steady in Hartford, although
deals consist largely of short-term lease extensions with no expansion of space needs. Also in the

 I-3
Hartford area, investment sales demand remains strong for multifamily structures, while well-leased
office buildings garner growing investor interest. In Providence, office leasing negotiations proceeded
slowly as some tenants pushed back against landlords’ rising rent demands, and some office sales fell
through or stalled in response to June’s spike in long-term Treasury rates. Also in response to the latter
development, a regional banking contact reports that borrowing rates were raised on some commercial
mortgages under negotiation and, moving forward, 10-year fixed-rate loans are likely to become more
scarce. However, a Boston contact reports that borrowing rates and capitalization rates on commercial
properties held largely steady in recent weeks. The outlook among First District contacts is for slow improvement in fundamentals for the rest of
2013, but some downside risks were noted. For example, a gun manufacturer in Connecticut announced
plans to relocate to South Carolina in response to the state’s passage of stricter gun-control laws, taking
jobs out of the state and vacating a significant amount of commercial space. Other gun manufacturers in
the state are reportedly likely to follow suit in the coming months. A seasonal slowdown in leasing
volume is expected in Providence for the summer months, and a few contacts across the District mention
interest-rate movements as a considerable source of uncertainty for investment sales moving forward.
Residential Real Estate Single-family home and condominium sales rose throughout the First District in May. Contacts in
the region report strong demand for housing, particularly in urban areas of New England. According to
contacts, slight increases in interest rates will likely spur more buyer activity in the short term as
households try to lock in historically low interest rates. In Massachusetts, particularly in the Greater
Boston area, inventory levels remain low, placing upward pressure on prices. Contacts in the Greater
Boston area caution that inventory remains the most significant constraint on sales growth. In other parts
of the First District, smaller cities report depleting inventory levels in urban centers, though realtors in
these areas feel that a sufficient number of homes are available to satisfy prospective buyers. In contrast
to much of the region, Rhode Island maintains a high level of inventory, but that market appears to be
recovering as sales activity and prices continue to increase. Contacts expect sales activity and the median sale price to continue their upward trend. Inventory
levels will likely remain an issue in urban areas due to a lack of new construction there. Contacts
anticipate that homeowners may be more inclined to list their home for sale as house values continue to
appreciate. Overall, contacts feel the market remains poised for healthy growth in the coming months.

 II-1 SECOND DISTRICT--NEW YORK Economic activity in the Second District has continued to expand moderately since the last
report. Manufacturers indicate that input price pressures have abated further, whereas service sector
contacts report that they remain fairly widespread; prices of finished goods and services are stable to
up slightly. Labor market conditions continue to improve gradually, and businesses have become
more willing to negotiate on salary. Retailers report that sales were on the soft side in May and
especially in June, whereas new automobile sales are reported to be steady. Tourism activity remains
steady at a strong level. Commercial and residential real estate markets have continued to firm
throughout the region. Finally, bankers report mixed but generally steady loan demand, no change in
credit standards, continued narrowing in loan spreads, and further declines in delinquency rates
across all loan categories.
Consumer Spending Retailers report that sales softened in May and especially in June. One major retail chain
reports that same-store sales were little changed from a year earlier, running modestly below plan in
May and noticeably below plan in June. Another chain indicates that sales were down noticeably
from 2012 levels in both months. In general, New York City stores performed a bit better than those
elsewhere in the District—likely buoyed by tourism. Major malls in upstate New York indicate that
sales were steady to lower than a year earlier. Most of the retail contacts attribute at least part of the
recent softness in sales to unseasonably cold and wet weather. Inventories are generally reported to
be at desired levels or a little on the high side. Prices are characterized as steady, and no unusual
discounting is reported. Auto dealers in the Buffalo and Rochester areas report that new vehicle sales were steady at
favorable levels in May and June, and continued to run moderately ahead of comparable 2012 levels.
Sales of used automobiles are characterized as soft—in large part because of attractive deals on new
autos. Wholesale and retail credit conditions for auto purchases remain in good shape.

 II-2 Tourism activity has been mixed but generally fairly robust since the last report. Manhattan
hotels report continued strong business, with total revenues up 7 percent from a year ago: occupancy
rates exceeded 90 percent and were roughly on par with a year ago, room rates were up 3-4 percent,
and there are about 3 percent more hotel rooms than a year ago. On the other hand, attendance at
Broadway theaters has continued to be weak, reflecting considerably fewer shows running than in the
spring of 2012. Finally, consumer confidence in the region has improved since the last report: The
Conference Board’s June survey of residents of the Middle Atlantic states (NY, NJ, Pa) shows
confidence rising for the third straight month, approaching its five-year high set last October; Siena
College’s survey of New York State residents shows consumer sentiment rising to its highest level
this year in June, led by upstate New York.
Construction and Real Estate Residential real estate markets in the District have strengthened further since the last report.
Sales prices for Manhattan apartments (co-ops and condos) were up moderately from a year earlier,
while sales volume was up nearly 20 percent, further sharply reducing the inventory of units on the
market. Rents on Manhattan apartments continue to rise and are running roughly 5 percent ahead of
comparable 2012 levels, however, rents have slipped modestly in Brooklyn. New Jersey’s housing
market has shown more modest signs of improvement: prices are rising slowly, reportedly restrained
by an ongoing backlog of distressed properties on the market. However, new construction activity—
particularly of rental apartment buildings—is running substantially ahead of a year ago. Finally,
housing market conditions remain particularly strong in western New York State: very tight
inventory levels have pushed prices up, and multiple offers and bidding wars have become
commonplace, despite continued tight lending standards. Commercial real estate markets throughout the New York City metropolitan region also
showed further improvement in the second quarter. Long Island’s office vacancy rate slipped below
8 percent for the first time in a number of years, while rates in northern New Jersey, Westchester and

 II-3
Fairfield counties edged down but remain on the high side. Office rents are little changed from mid-
2012 in these areas. Manhattan’s office vacancy rate ticked up but remains low as of mid-year, while
asking rents are up roughly 5 percent over the past year. Industrial markets have also tightened,
particularly in Long Island, where vacancy rates have declined steadily and asking rents are up nearly
8 percent over the past year.
Other Business Activity The labor market continues to improve at a gradual pace. Two major employment agencies
describe market fundamentals as favorable but note that the market is difficult to gauge at this
typically slow time of year. One contact notes increasing difficulty in finding candidates with
specific skill sets—especially for technology workers—and also finds companies becoming less
reluctant to negotiate on salaries. This is described as the best year for college graduates since 2008. More generally, manufacturing contacts report a modest increase in staffing levels and some
pickup in business activity since the last report but do not expect to hire additional workers through
the second half of 2013. Contacts in other sectors also report some pickup in both employment and
business activity and do plan to ramp up hiring, as well as capital spending, in the months ahead.
Input price pressures have abated further in the manufacturing sector but remain fairly widespread
among service-sector businesses. Both manufacturers and service-sector contacts report that selling
prices are relatively stable.
Financial Developments Bankers report increased demand for commercial mortgages but decreased demand for
residential mortgages. For other loan categories, as well as for refinancing, contacts report no change
in demand. Respondents also note that credit standards remain unchanged across all loan categories.
Bankers indicate a decrease in spreads of loan rates over costs of funds for all loan categories—
particularly in commercial mortgages. Finally, bankers report decreased delinquency rates for all
loan categories, but especially for commercial & industrial loans.

 III - 1 THIRD DISTRICT – PHILADELPHIA Aggregate business activity in the Third District maintained an overall moderate pace of
growth during this current Beige Book period. In particular, auto sales accelerated to a strong
rate of growth, lending firmed up to a modest rate of growth, and manufacturing activity appears
to have grown slightly after declining slightly last period. The growth rate of residential
construction, existing home sales, and general services continued at a moderate pace.
Commercial real estate leasing continued to expand at modest rates, while commercial real estate
construction continued to expand only slightly. General retail sales, staffing services, and
tourism appear to have resumed a modest rate of growth this period after a small surge last
period. Manufacturing has resumed at a slight rate of growth after declining slightly last period.
Loan volumes at Third District banks grew at a modest pace across most categories, a little faster
than last period. Credit quality continued to improve. Little change was reported for general price
levels as well as for wages and home prices. Contacts reported slight increases overall – similar
to the last Beige Book period. An overall outlook for moderate growth has continued since the last Beige Book.
Contacts expressed greater confidence in the consumer and in the sustainability of current trends.
Firms remain cautious about hiring and about carrying out their long-term capital expenditure
plans. However, firms are more comfortable investing when necessary to replace or upgrade
aging equipment and to meet growing demand. Manufacturing. Since the last Beige Book, Third District manufacturers have reported
that orders and shipments are rising again. The makers of paper products, rubber products,
fabricated metals, industrial machinery, and instruments have reported gains since the last Beige
Book. Firms supplying the home-building sector continued to report strong orders and ongoing
hiring to keep pace. The makers of food products and electronic equipment reported lower
activity (some was seasonal). Reports were mixed for makers of primary metals. Other contacts
attributed growing demand to auto-related business and foreign demand. A negative impact from
sequestration was cited by some firms, while others said they avoided the worst effects. Firms
continued to report restraint in current hiring but a desire to hire more workers in the near future. Across nearly all sectors, Third District manufacturers remained optimistic that business
conditions will improve over the next six months. Business plans for the remainder of the year
have been lowered slightly for some firms. However, firms appear more confident of ongoing,
steady growth and more willing to invest in capacity and hire new workers as needed to keep
pace with demand. Overall, firms have significantly increased their expectations of future hiring
and their plans for capital spending since the last Beige Book.

 III - 2 Retail. Third District retailers have reported modest growth – dampened by rainy
weather – since the last Beige Book. Contacts described June and July as seasonally slower
months, as local residents head off for summer vacations. However, excessive rain in June kept
still more people away from stores, while some showed up just to “hang out” at the mall. Mall
operators reported that the general retail climate has improved, citing stronger demand for retail
space and rising occupancy rates. Auto dealers reported that June sales accelerated to a strong rate of growth. Sales,
described as “on fire” for the first couple of weeks of June, may have produced “the best [June
sales] in six years.” Dealers attributed a better sales climate, in part, to no supply problems, no
credit problems, and falling unemployment rates. Dealers are bullish for the next couple of years
but continue to hire cautiously. Finance. Overall, Third District financial firms reported modest increases in total loan
volume – a slight improvement since the previous Beige Book. Banking contacts cited stronger
demand for all major loan categories, including C&I loans, real estate loans, and consumer loans,
including credit cards. Consumer lending and home equity loans remained slow, as refinancings
remained a preferred option for homeowners. However, contacts reported a decline in refinance
applications in the pipeline after rates rose. Meanwhile, increasing sales of new and existing
homes are raising demand for home mortgages. Banking contacts continued to report strong
competition for loans and concerns about competitors lowering their lending standards.
However, most banks reported “improvement in all aspects of business,” including “more
upgrades of credits” within their own portfolios. Contacts expressed continued optimism for
future growth and sensed greater customer confidence. Real Estate and Construction. Homebuilders throughout most of the Third District
continued to report moderate growth. Though traffic and sales were soft in a few markets, most
builders are meeting their plan for the year with increases as high as 40 percent. Builders
reported no systemic impediments to sales, such as credit availability and mortgage issues. Some
builders still face labor shortages for carpentry and framing work, and several contacts have
reported a shortage of finished land. Moderate growth of existing home sales continued through
June, according to residential brokers. Sales closed and sales pending grew by double digits (year
over year) in several larger metropolitan areas in the Third District. The estimated months’
supply of the existing inventory of homes has fallen to near six months in many areas. Brokers
say the anticipated shadow inventory of homes has not yet emerged. Nonresidential real estate contacts continued to report little change in the modest pace of
overall leasing activity and slight growth of construction. Although the overall climate for new

 III - 3
construction “is getting incrementally better,” contacts reported a renewed strong push for
industrial structures along the I-81 and I-76 corridors throughout eastern Pennsylvania and into
central New Jersey. Construction activity also remains greater for multifamily residential units,
higher education facilities, and public utility infrastructure. Contacts continued to report heavy
competition and thin margins on projects. Overall, contacts remained optimistic for a
continuation of slow, steady growth. Services. Third District service-sector firms continued to report a moderate pace of
growth overall. Despite earlier strong bookings, shore destinations in Delaware and New Jersey
reported somewhat lower activity (traffic counts, bookings, and boardwalk sales) and cited rainy
weather through much of June as one source of the problem. A multimillion dollar advertising
campaign has helped boost Jersey Shore activity, but tourism in the areas hardest hit by
Hurricane Sandy is still down somewhat more than is necessitated by the actual damage. Casino
revenues from Atlantic City and the state of Delaware remain on a downward trend, and reports
from Pennsylvania casinos indicate that revenue from slot machines appears to be turning in the
same direction. In other sectors, firms cite steady progress – rising consumer confidence, limited cost
pressures, and growing sales. A staffing firm reported a slight sag in billable hours for June
following strong growth through May year to date. Other service-sector firms reported
“incrementally better” growth, tight margins, and cautious hiring. Contacts offer mixed reports
on their ability to attract qualified workers while generally citing no wage pressures. Overall,
service-sector firms remain optimistic about future growth. Prices and Wages. Overall, price levels continued to increase slightly, similar to the
previous Beige Book. Manufacturing firms reported modest increases for prices paid and prices
received. Auto dealers reported no changes in pricing. Homebuilders continued to face tight
margins and higher prices for some skilled labor. Most real estate contacts reported stable, if not
rising, prices for lower priced homes, and contacts in some markets noted stable prices for
higher-priced homes. Contacts from retail, restaurants, and some services indicated that
commodity prices have not been a big issue this year as in the recent past. Wage pressures
remain constrained, according to most contacts other than homebuilders.

 IV - 1 FOURTH DISTRICT – CLEVELAND The economy in the Fourth District expanded at a moderate pace during the past six
weeks. Manufacturing orders and production were steady or higher. The momentum seen in
residential construction since the beginning of the year has slowed, but activity remains above
year-ago levels. Nonresidential builders experienced a rise in the number of inquiries and
backlogs. Retail sales were lackluster during May, while new motor vehicle sales posted
moderate gains on a year-over-year basis. Conventional and unconventional natural gas and oil
production was stable, and drilling has declined since the start of the year. Output at coal mines
trended lower. Freight transport volume exceeded projections. Demand for credit increased
slightly. Hiring picked up in manufacturing and residential construction. Staffing firm
representatives reported that the number of job openings and placements was fairly steady, with
vacancies found primarily in healthcare and manufacturing. Wage pressures remain contained.
Input and finished goods prices saw little change, apart from increases in construction materials. Manufacturing. Reports from District factories indicated that new orders and
production were largely stable or increased during the past six weeks. Companies seeing the
strongest activity were suppliers to the residential construction and transportation industries.
Compared to a year ago, production levels were mixed. Steel producers and service centers
reported that shipping volumes were little changed. Our contacts expressed concern about
downward pressure on domestic steel prices, which they attributed to rising imports. Motor
vehicle production at District plants held steady during May on a month-over-month basis.
Compared to a year ago, auto production rose slightly. Many of our contacts believe that
demand will soften during the next couple of months, although part of the expected decline was
attributed to seasonal factors. In response, there was some reduction in finished goods
inventories. Manufacturers commented that capacity utilization rates have fallen slightly but remain
within their normal ranges. Capital expenditures are either on plan or slightly ahead for the
fiscal year. Several companies anticipate increasing capital budgets in the upcoming fiscal year
to better position themselves for expected growth opportunities. Raw material and finished
goods prices were generally flat or trended lower. Steel producers who attempted to raise their
prices met with limited success. Factories expanded payrolls at a modest pace, although finding
qualified production and salaried personnel was difficult. Wage pressures are contained. Real Estate. Sales of new single-family homes were down slightly in June when
compared to earlier in the spring, although they remain above year-ago levels. Construction
starts also fell slightly. One contractor commented that the recent decline in sales is not
abnormal for this time of year. Traffic and inquiries were described as much better relative to

 IV - 2
last year. New home contracts were found mostly in the mid- to higher-price-point categories.
Demand for multifamily housing was strong. Builders were confident that the turnaround in the
housing market will persist in the upcoming months. Nonetheless, they cited difficulty in
obtaining financing and a lack of buildable lots as barriers to more robust growth. List prices of
new homes increased by as much as 5 percent in certain markets this year due primarily to rising
costs for land, building materials, and to a lesser extent, labor. Home builders have cut back on
discounting. Sale prices of existing single-family homes continued to rise across the District on
a year-over-year basis, but the rate of increase is somewhat lower than the national average. Nonresidential builders have seen a small improvement in business conditions since our
last report. Inquiries have picked up and backlogs are slowly rising. The strongest activity was
on the commercial side, especially in distribution and warehousing. Bank financing is difficult
to obtain, so many smaller projects are being funded with cash. Our contacts are hopeful that the
improvement in business conditions they have recently experienced will continue at the same
pace or accelerate during the remainder of this year. We heard many comments about large price increases for building materials, especially
lumber, drywall, and concrete, though the rate of increase has slowed during the past month.
Home builders reported moderate hiring, especially for office personnel, while nonresidential
builders limited their hiring to seasonal help. Wage pressures are contained. General contractors
are concerned about the availability of qualified subcontractors if demand in the construction
sector begins growing at a robust pace. Consumer Spending. Retailers described May sales as lackluster and noted that they
fell below plan. However, sales were fairly even with the same month a year ago. Some of our
contacts cited poor weather conditions for holding down consumer spending. Looking ahead,
third-quarter sales are expected to be modestly higher when compared to those in the second
quarter. A few contacts reported that their inventories were slightly higher than desired. Vendor
and shelf prices held steady. Capital expenditures were on plan for the fiscal year. Monies are
allocated primarily for store improvements and expansions. No hiring is anticipated, except for
staffing new stores. Year-to-date sales of new motor vehicles showed a moderate increase during May
compared to the same time period a year ago. Buyers preferred smaller, fuel-efficient vehicles;
however, purchases of large pickup trucks trended higher, especially in the eastern half of the
District. New vehicle inventories are rising, but a majority of dealers said that they are satisfied
with their inventory positions. Our contacts are fairly optimistic about sales prospects for the
remainder of the year. Dealers pointed to pent-up consumer demand and the option to lease
vehicles as reasons for their optimism. Used-vehicle purchases rose during the past six weeks.
Inventory is building as lease rollovers start to come in. Prices for quality used cars remain high.

 IV - 3
Dealer investment in facility upgrades and expansions has increased as they grow more confident
about the sustainability of higher sales volume. Dealers are looking to hire a small number of
personnel, though some have postponed hiring decisions as they gauge the effectiveness of new
technology that is being integrated into their selling model. Banking. Demand for commercial real estate and multi family construction loans has
picked up since our last report, while requests for other business loan categories were little
changed. Almost all bankers reported aggressive credit-pricing pressure. Consumer credit
demand rose slightly, especially for auto loans and home equity products. Residential mortgage
activity remains relatively strong. Several bankers attributed a decline in refinancing to a rise in
interest rates. New purchase mortgages are trending higher. No changes were made to loan-
application standards. Aggregate core deposits grew at a steady pace, with a movement from
CDs to demand deposits still taking place. There were a few reports about workforce reductions
and shifting personnel as a means of cutting costs. Energy. District coal production remains below year-ago levels, although the downward
trend seen during the first five months of 2013 was showing signs of leveling off. Producers
reported that demand from domestic utility companies is up slightly, while offshore demand is
slowing (Asia) or stagnant (Europe). Spot prices for steam-coal rose slightly, whereas
metallurgical coal prices were flat. The number of drilling rigs across the District has fallen
significantly since the beginning of the year; however, the state of Ohio continued to issue shale
gas drilling permits at a robust pace. Output from conventional and unconventional gas wells
was stable during the past couple of months, while oil production picked up slightly. Well-head
prices were little changed. Capital expenditures remain at targeted levels. On balance, little
change was seen in production equipment and material prices. Energy payrolls and labor costs
were flat. Freight Transportation. Our contacts reported that shipping volume remains higher
than expected, but the rate of growth has slowed since our last report. Freight executives are
positive, but cautious about growth prospects for the near term. Of particular concern is how the
new hours of service regulations (HOS) that went into effect on July 1 will play out. Our
contacts believe that the primary impact of HOS will be on the availability of drivers and the
ability of shipping companies to effectively schedule those drivers. Potential reductions in
capacity will tend to drive up shipping costs. Prices for equipment and maintenance items were
stable. Capital spending is on plan for the fiscal year. Monies are used mainly for tractor/trailer
replacement and capacity expansion. The industry is still experiencing a shortage of drivers and
skilled mechanics. The former may worsen under the new HOS regulations.

 V-1 FIFTH DISTRICT–RICHMOND Overview. District economic activity strengthened moderately in recent weeks. Manufacturing
shipments and new orders increased. Consumer spending firmed somewhat and auto sales remained solid.
Services providers also reported steady to stronger demand. Additionally, tourist bookings were up year
over year. In banking, demand rose for new residential mortgage lending. Commercial and industrial
lending was flat to slightly higher. Residential real estate sales and construction increased, with
speculative building returning to some areas. Commercial construction was little changed and leasing was
steady overall, with occasional reports of rising rental rates. The effect of continued heavy rainfall on
agriculture was mixed, slowing planting or damaging some crops while bolstering others. Natural gas
production increased since our last report, particularly shale gas, and coal production was steady but well
below year-ago levels. In labor markets, temp hiring picked up, although many firms were reluctant to
hire permanent workers. Average wage growth was flat to faster, and price changes were mixed. Manufacturing. Manufacturers expressed cautious optimism in the weeks since our last report,
as activity in that sector strengthened modestly. Shipments and new orders rose, and the average
workweek increased. Despite the improved conditions, producers preferred to use cash to update
technology and existing infrastructure, rather than undertake expansion. A plastics manufacturer
commented that his company was purchasing new machinery in response to increased work levels, and he
saw industrial confidence as being up, but still cautious. A lumber company executive said he will not
hire new full-time employees until next year, but that, so far, this has been his best year since 2007.
Moreover, according to a representative of several manufacturers, some firms have gone to two shifts and
further growth is expected for the second half of this year as backlogs build. Even so, he described
confidence as “fragile, and nobody takes it for granted.” Federal spending reductions, tax changes, and
slower overseas demand affected some manufacturers. A manufacturer of packaging materials
commented, “There is a light at the end of the tunnel, but it only flickers at times.” Price growth increased
for raw materials and finished goods, according to our latest survey of manufacturers. Ports. Port volumes were little changed overall in recent weeks. Lumber imports picked up,
while imports of auto parts and auto assembly inputs softened slightly from very high volumes. Imports
and exports of autos remained strong. Exports of containerized agricultural products rose, particularly
logs and animal feed inputs, while exports of wheat sprouts declined. Energy-related exports and
agricultural equipment were solid, with agricultural equipment peaking in late spring as usual, albeit
somewhat below year-ago record levels. Overall, coal exports were unchanged. Port administrators
expected seasonal increases in the weeks ahead for back-to-school and holiday imports. Retail. Retail sales strengthened slightly in recent weeks, helped by big-ticket sales. A wholesaler
of heavy construction equipment commented that his firm had seen significant improvement.

 V-2
Additionally, a contact at a large auto and light truck dealership remarked that sales volume was strong
and the market was extremely competitive. He noted that new vehicle sales were being driven by full-size
pickups that are typically purchased by homebuilders and construction-related services businesses. Used
car sales were exceptionally strong and some dealers had shortages of used vehicles. A report from a large
department store chain said that cold and damp weather, along with the payroll tax change, had
constrained sales. Retail price growth slowed since our last report. Services. Non-retail services firms reported steady to stronger activity. Telecommunications
firms, accountants, and a firm specializing in software design for clinical use reported rising revenues.
Hospital consolidation remained “intense,” according to a contact in North Carolina. Non-retail prices
rose more slowly in this reporting period. Tourism picked up. Bookings rose in the Tidewater, Virginia region. Additionally, a hotel
manager in western North Carolina noted that his bookings have risen compared to a year ago and that
expectations were for continued year-over-year growth for the remainder of this year. A contact on the
outer banks of North Carolina reported general optimism and added that cutbacks in government funding
for tourist sites have led to increased fund-raising events, such as concerts. Rates were little changed. Finance. Banking activity increased slightly since our last assessment. Demand for residential
mortgages was up in most markets and bankers across the Fifth District commented that there had been a
noticeable shift toward new purchases and away from refinancing. A Virginia banker proclaimed that
“refinancing had died,” although a lender in South Carolina said that refinancing still made up the
majority of his residential mortgage business. However, some customers no longer qualified for loan
refinancing due to higher rates. Similarly, “the phone rang more often” for a Virginia banker while a
lender in Maryland reported that people were waiting to see what rates would do. Demand for residential
construction loans rose in South Carolina. Commercial and industrial loan demand was flat to slightly
higher. There were several loans in the pipeline at a West Virginia bank, most of which were for new
structures (i.e., office buildings, car showrooms, and a retirement community). However, higher interest
rates caused some deals to be reevaluated and put on hold or pulled. Contacts also stated that clients were
surprised at the higher rates and that businesses were trying to figure out how best to budget for them. Real Estate. Residential real estate sales expanded. Two Washington, D.C. area agents reported
that it was now routine to see multiple offers for a home, as well as escalator clauses in those contracts.
Another contact in the region said that home repair and specialized construction were benefitting from
strength in the housing market. Due in part to its proximity to D.C. and Baltimore, home sales in the
eastern panhandle of West Virginia finally saw some improvement. In addition, home sales in western
North Carolina were up, causing inventories to erode and speculative building to resume. Inventories
were also low in the Charlotte region where home sales and prices had both increased. Lastly, a source on
the eastern shore of Maryland stated that appraisals were below the sales price of homes in some areas.

 V-3 Commercial real estate and construction markets were little changed overall in recent weeks.
Demand for commercial real estate in Washington. D.C. continued to be scarce as people were “waiting
on the sidelines” to see what would happen with the economy and government spending. In addition, one
large business in the D.C. area sold its buildings and turned to renting space while another shifted out of
large leased spaces and consolidated into buildings owned by the firm. There were conflicting reports
from our North Carolina contacts about multi-family housing: one reported there was now some
overbuilding while another said there was still a lot of strength in this type of housing. This latter
sentiment was echoed by a report from the Tidewater area of Virginia indicating that multi-family was
doing well and stalled projects were coming back on line. Contacts in other parts of the state reported that
lot inventory was low or “almost nil.” Retail, office, and industrial leasing activity was steady in Virginia
and West Virginia while rental rates edged up in Charlotte and Richmond. Agriculture and Natural Resources. Recent reports on agricultural conditions were mixed.
While a South Carolina farm loan banker reported that the wet weather earlier in the year “started the crop
season off in a positive light,” other reports from South Carolina and Virginia indicated that the rains
delayed planting and even resulted in one farmer planting soybeans and cotton instead of corn. In
addition, a South Carolina contact noted that heavy rains had damaged the regional wheat crop to the
extent that sprouts were unacceptable for export. A North Carolina source also noted a recent shift to
cotton over corn, due to declining corn prices. Nevertheless, another source remarked that agricultural
lending was “booming” and demand for wood products continued to rise. Natural gas production—particularly shale gas—continued to increase in West Virginia.
Moreover, one shale plant was less than fully staffed because of a worker shortage. Although rig counts
were down nationwide, West Virginia was one of five states that recently saw an increase in rig counts.
Coal production remained steady in recent weeks though well below a year ago. Coal lay-offs in southern
West Virginia were expected to come later this year. Labor Markets. Conditions in the District labor market were somewhat better since our last
report. Employment rose in several industries, including home repair and construction, hotels, and
medical software. In addition, a contact from a temp agency in North Carolina reported there was high
demand for technology professionals, particularly for healthcare-related IT, as well as accounting,
finance, and real estate. He added that contingent labor was in much greater demand than full-time
employees due to uncertainty about the economy; another source said that small businesses were going
out of their way to avoid the long-term commitment of permanent hiring. In contrast, a web consulting
firm in Virginia and a social assistance organization in North Carolina planned to add employees. Also, a
staffing agency in South Carolina reported weak demand for labor, and two electrical equipment
manufacturers laid off employees. According to our latest surveys, wage growth picked up in the
manufacturing sector, remained robust at non-retail establishments, and flattened at retail businesses.

 VI-1 SIXTH DISTRICT – ATLANTA Summary. Reports from Sixth District business contacts indicated that economic activity
expanded at a modest pace in June and early July. The outlook for the rest of the year remains
optimistic for most firms. Retailers noted mixed sales results and vehicle sales grew at a robust pace. The hospitality
sector continued to experience strong demand. Most brokers and homebuilders reported increases in
sales and prices, and declining home inventories. Commercial contractors cited improvement in
overall demand and a slight increase in construction. Manufacturing firms indicated that activity
grew, albeit at a slower rate than in our previous report. Loan demand remained stable for
residential real estate, while loans for autos outside of the dealership remained constrained by
competitive offers from auto manufacturers. Employment growth for the District was modest.
Firms remarked that stable input prices have helped improve profit margins slightly. Consumer Spending and Tourism. Reports from District retailers were mixed. While most
merchants experienced modest growth, growth was lower than expected in some cases. Some
attributed lackluster sales to weather conditions. Auto dealers continued to experience strong
growth. Travel and tourism activity continued to exceed expectations. Contacts throughout the
District reported that key indicators of demand (visitation, hotel occupancy, average daily rate, and
revenue per available room) and profitability were positive and steadily rising. In spite of increases
in accommodation rates, demand remained strong with advanced bookings for the next three to six
months increasing to levels above those from a year ago. With strong convention and group
meeting activity planned for the remainder of 2013 and positive lead volume for 2014, District
hospitality contacts anticipate the positive momentum of 2013 to continue in 2014. Real Estate and Construction. District brokers continued to report that existing home sales
remained ahead of last year's level were mostly ahead of expectations. However, brokers still report
that inventories remain at low levels, and thereby restraining sales. Shortages were also said to be
putting upward pressure on home prices. Existing home prices continued to rise on a year-over-year
basis. The outlook for sales growth remained positive, with the majority of brokers anticipating
sales gains over the next several months. District homebuilders reported that new home sales and construction were ahead of year
earlier levels. Recent activity was mostly in line with expectations and buyer traffic remained
strong. However, builders noted that access to financing and a shortage of developed lots continued
to constrain construction activity. Most contacts reported that new home inventories were below the

 VI-2
year earlier level and prices rose modestly. The outlook for construction and new home sales
remained positive, but the outlook for growth moderated somewhat compared with our last report. District commercial real estate contacts indicated that demand continued to improve from
earlier in the year. Construction activity was described as flat to slightly up from earlier this year
and was dominated by build-to-suit projects and renovations of existing space. While a wider
variety of projects seems to be in the works compared with a year ago, activity was still
concentrated in medical office space, certain types of retail, and apartments. Commercial brokers
indicated that demand for space improved at a modest pace. Brokers reported that most markets still
favored tenants; however, rate increases continued to be noted in select submarkets. The outlook
among District commercial real estate contacts remained positive with further improvements
expected this year. Manufacturing and Transportation. Regional manufacturers reported expanding activity;
however, the rate of growth slowed as a result of a decrease in new orders, production, and finished
inventory. Contacts reported a slight decline in commodities prices and some expressed that
inventories may build in some sectors as manufacturers take advantage of favorable prices. Less
than half of purchasing managers expect production to be higher in the next three to six months,
slightly lower than our previous report. District port contacts cited notable year-over-year growth in container trade, autos and
machinery, and bulk cargoes, including a significant increase in the exporting of natural gas.
Trucking companies cited a rise in shipments of building construction materials, as well as
chemicals; however, capacity remained constrained due to driver shortages. Total year-to-date
railroad volumes were reported to be flat through June, but significant activity was noted for
petroleum-related products and other chemicals, forest, lumber and wood products, and
metallurgical coal. Banking and Finance. Some institutions reported a pickup in mortgage loan demand
attributed to improved housing markets and increasing interest rates. They also indicated that while
mortgage refinancing had slowed, new purchase loan demand had increased. Demand for
automobile loans declined as banks and credit unions noted they could not compete with zero
percent deals from auto manufacturers. Some bankers indicated vigorous competition for loans has led them to change loan features,
such as relaxing guarantee requirements or covering a substantial chunk of closing costs. Local
community bank contacts had eased up on covenants and guarantees and were willing to take more
risks, particularly when a loan fit a category in which they were interested.

 VI-3 Some businesses were courted with offers to refinance debt with eased covenants and
restrictions, while others indicated financing was still a major impediment to new construction
projects and securing funding remained difficult. Employment and Prices. Since the last report, District payrolls grew at a modest pace.
Tennessee experienced moderate payroll gains in retail, trade and transportation, professional and
business services, and manufacturing. Alabama continued to see hiring in hospitality services, most
notably in accommodation and food services. Louisiana added jobs in construction, and education
and healthcare. All District states saw payroll contractions in their government sectors, with the
exception of Mississippi, which showed a mild gain at the state government level. In general, most input costs remained relatively stable, helping to support slightly stronger
profit margins in the face of improving, but still below pre-recession sales levels. Some notable
exceptions were costs related to construction materials such as lumber, concrete, and drywall, which
increased for a number of contacts. The Atlanta Fed's Business Inflation Expectations survey
showed year-ahead unit cost expectations ticking down from 2 to 1.8 percent in June, marking the
lowest reading since January. Natural Resources and Agriculture. Regional oil and gas activity remained robust.
Significant capital investment continued in liquefied natural gas (LNG) facilities along the Gulf
Coast. Expansion projects on existing refineries were noted as moving along, marking the first time
such investments have been made in twenty years. There were some comments that high costs to
transport oil and gas by rail, barge, and truck were exerting upward pressure on prices for refined
products. Contacts also indicated that capacity for oil and natural gas products remained abundant
and that domestic demand for energy products was beginning to rise for the season. Since our last report, soil throughout much of the District improved to more favorable, drier
conditions. Pasture conditions improved as well. Monthly prices paid to farmers were up for
cotton, soybeans, corn for grain, rice, citrus, hogs, and broilers. During this same period, beef
prices were down slightly, but still moderately higher than this time last year.

 VII-1 SEVENTH DISTRICT—CHICAGO Summary. Economic activity in the Seventh District expanded at a moderate pace in June,
and contacts remained cautiously optimistic about growth prospects in the second half of the year.
Growth in consumer and business spending picked up. Manufacturing production increased as did
construction, led by continued improvement in the residential sector. Credit conditions tightened
moderately. Cost pressures were again mild, and wage pressures remained moderate. Crop
conditions improved, with the crop ending the period in better shape than a year ago. Consumer spending. Growth in consumer spending increased in June. Contacts attributed
the pick-up in the pace of growth to recent gains in consumer confidence, an increase in auto dealer
incentives and other retail promotions, and the rebounding housing market. Auto sales increased at
a faster rate than non-auto retail sales. Auto dealers reported strong sales of both pick-up trucks and
small passenger cars, as well as an increase in activity in the leasing market. For non-auto retail
sales, contacts noted that high-end retailers and discount stores both continued to fare better than
middle market retailers. Business spending. Growth in business spending also picked up in June. Spending on
equipment and software increased slightly, as did spending on structures. A few contacts reported
an increase in merger and acquisitions activity, but noted that deals were being delayed by
uncertainty surrounding the economic outlook. Inventory investment was also impacted by elevated
uncertainty. Retail contacts reported that inventories remained tight, as many retailers were
planning to wait until after the back-to-school season to re-assess the state of demand and before
placing the bulk of their holiday orders. Manufacturers were also limiting inventory investment,
with a contact noting that steel service centers were liquidating inventories given weak demand.
Labor market conditions continued to improve slowly. Demand for skilled workers remained
relatively stronger, particularly for healthcare, information technology, engineering, and other
technical occupations. Manufacturing contacts, however, were generally more cautious in their
hiring plans, with some layoffs reported in industries where activity has slowed considerably in
recent months. In addition, several retailers reported that the Affordable Care Act would lead to
more part-time and temporary versus full-time hiring. Construction/real estate. Construction and real estate activity continued to increase
gradually in June. Demand for residential construction grew steadily, as multifamily construction
remained strong and single-family construction continued to improve. A homebuilder noted that

 VII-2
while new single-family development remained limited, improvement of vacant lots in existing
developments was increasing. Activity in the residential real estate market continued to increase as
well, with home sales, prices, and rents rising. Nonresidential construction grew at a modest pace,
driven in large part by the ongoing expansion of the auto industry. However, a contact noted that
planned upgrades to auto supplier facilities were nearly complete; and that with auto production
getting back to pre-recession levels, any additional capacity expansion was likely to be incremental.
Commercial real estate conditions continued to improve as rents rose slowly and vacancies fell. Manufacturing. Manufacturing production increased in June. The auto industry continued
to be a source of strength, with the traditional summer shut-down period scaled back this year to
meet the increase in customer demand. Vehicle demand was strong across all sectors, and auto
industry contacts reported growing confidence that activity will remain robust in the second half of
the year. Steel production again grew at a moderate pace, and specialty metal manufacturers
reported a modest improvement in new orders and order backlogs. In contrast, demand for heavy
equipment remained soft, although contacts anticipated a slight improvement in the remaining
months of the year. Mining activity continued to weaken, and contacts expressed concern over the
effect environmental regulations would have on the coal mining industry moving forward. Demand
for construction equipment picked up some as the housing market continued to improve. Banking/finance. Credit conditions tightened moderately over the reporting period.
Volatility increased across a number of asset classes and corporate borrowing costs rose. Financial
market participants noted lower activity in fixed income markets, particularly the high-yield
corporate debt market. Banking contacts cited less demand among their larger clients for leveraged
financing, and continued uneven growth in the middle market driven mostly by refinancing of
existing debt. Credit standards remained roughly unchanged, although contacts reported additional
downward pressure on pricing. In contrast, consumer loan demand increased over the reporting
period, particularly for auto lending. With the recent increase in mortgage rates, mortgage
refinancing slowed, but contacts again noted an increase in new mortgage originations. Prices/costs. Cost pressures remained mild in June. Commodity prices continued to trend
lower, although some contacts noted increases in the prices paid for concrete, drywall, metals such
as steel and copper, and energy goods and services. Retailers again reported mostly modest
increases in wholesale prices; and, overall, pass-through to downstream prices was limited. Wage
pressures remained moderate, although many contacts again noted rising healthcare and other
benefit costs. Some of these higher costs were being passed on to employees.

 VII-3 Agriculture. Crop conditions improved over the course of the reporting period, with the
crop ending the period in better shape than a year ago. District farmers managed to get their crops in
the ground despite additional planting delays caused by the unseasonably wet weather. Only a small
percentage of acres will not grow a crop, where water pooled in low-lying areas and replanting was
not possible. Fruit crops could produce record yields this year, in sharp contrast with the large
losses seen a year ago. With stocks of corn and soybeans expected to remain at very low levels until
the fall harvest, corn and soybean prices moved higher. The increase in feed costs negatively
affected livestock operations, and contacts noted that it would lead to careful management of feed
purchases until anticipated declines in crop prices are likely to materialize following a potentially
record fall harvest. The first cutting of hay was mostly complete and was much better than last year.
Supported by rejuvenated pastures, milk output also increased. Milk prices were roughly unchanged
during the reporting period, while hog prices surged, and cattle prices were lower.

 VIII-1 Eighth District - St. Louis
Summary The economy of the Eighth District has expanded at a moderate pace since our previous
report. Recent reports of planned activity in manufacturing and services have been positive.
Residential real estate market conditions have continued to improve, and commercial real estate
markets have also improved. Total lending at a sample of small and midsized District banks
increased from mid-March to mid-June.
Manufacturing and Other Business Activity Reports of manufacturing activity plans have been positive since our previous report.
Several manufacturing firms reported significant plans to add workers, expand operations, or
open new facilities in the Eighth District, while a smaller number of manufacturers reported
plans to reduce their employee count. Firms in automobile, automobile parts, lumber, bakery,
petroleum refining, and firearm manufacturing plan to hire new employees and expand
operations in the Eighth District. In contrast, firms that manufacture boats, housewares, turbines,
and medical equipment reported plans to lay off workers in the District. Reports of plans in the District’s service sector have also been positive since the previous
report. Firms in television, prescription benefits management, electronics retail, residential care,
utility, consulting, and automobile sales services reported new hiring and expansion plans in
District states. In contrast, firms in transportation, financial, food wholesale, healthcare, and
security services plan to lay-off employees. Reports from retail contacts were generally positive.
There were more new retail store openings than store closings. However, many retail contacts
noted that year-to-date sales were below expectations, and contacts were cautiously optimistic
about sales for the remainder of 2013. Finally, sales reports from auto dealers were generally

 VIII-2
positive, citing increased sales for new and used cars as well as plans to open new dealership
locations.
Real Estate and Construction Home sales have continued to increase throughout most of the Eighth District on a year-
over-year basis. Compared with the same period in 2012, May 2013 year-to-date home sales
were up 17 percent in Louisville, 24 percent in Little Rock, 8 percent in Memphis, and 14
percent in St. Louis. May 2013 year-to-date single-family housing permits increased in the
majority of the District metro areas compared with the same period in 2012. Permits increased 18
percent in Louisville, 23 percent in Memphis, and 18 percent in St. Louis. Permits decreased 3
percent in Little Rock. Commercial and industrial real estate market conditions have continued to improve
moderately throughout most of the District. A contact in Memphis reported that commercial and
industrial real estate activity continued to strengthen. A contact in Louisville noted a strong
demand in industrial real estate. Contacts in St. Louis reported that downtown office leasing
appeared to bottom out compared with last year. A contact in northwest Arkansas also reported
that commercial real estate activity was moving in the right direction. Commercial and industrial
construction activity continued to improve throughout most of the District. A contact in south
central Kentucky reported several commercial construction plans in Bowling Green, while a
contact in central Arkansas noted a few retail construction projects. In contrast, contacts in
Memphis and Louisville commented that industrial construction activity was low.
Banking and Finance Total loans outstanding at a sample of small and midsized District banks increased 1.8
percent from mid-March to mid-June. Real estate lending, which accounts for 73.4 percent of

 VIII-3
total loans, increased 0.9 percent. Commercial and industrial loans, accounting for 15.7 percent
of total loans, increased 0.7 percent. Loans to individuals, accounting for 4.7 percent of total
loans, increased 1.9 percent. All other loans, accounting for 6.2 percent of total loans, increased
15.3 percent. During this period, total deposits at these banks decreased 0.8 percent.
Agriculture and Natural Resources At the end of June, the condition of over 90 percent of the cotton, corn, soybeans,
sorghum, and rice crops was rated as fair or better in all the District states. Furthermore, at least
70 percent of total pastureland across the District states was rated in good or excellent condition.
The winter wheat harvest was behind its 5-year average and behind the progress made by the
same time last year. Year-to-date coal production for the District states at the end of May was
lower than the same period last year because of lackluster production in Illinois, Missouri,
Tennessee, and Indiana. In contrast, year-to-date coal production in Arkansas was 55 percent
higher than the same period last year.

 IX-1 NINTH DISTRICT--MINNEAPOLIS
The Ninth District economy showed signs of moderate growth. Increased activity was noted
in consumer spending, professional services, manufacturing and energy. Tourism-related
activities slowed in May and June in some areas, but tourism businesses were optimistic for
the summer season. Commercial construction and real estate grew moderately fast, while
residential construction and real estate grew at a robust pace. The mining sector was sluggish,
and agriculture decreased. Labor markets continued to tighten slightly, and wage increases
were moderate. Price increases were subdued since the last report.
Consumer Spending and Tourism
Consumer spending increased modestly. A Minnesota-based bar and restaurant chain noted
that sales were up moderately during May and June compared with a year ago.
A mall manager in North Dakota reported that sales increased modestly while traffic
decreased slightly during late May and June; apparel sales were particularly slow.
Meanwhile, a Minnesota-based apparel retailer recently reported strong gains in same-store
sales. Minnesota vehicle sales were up from a year ago during May and June with truck
sales particularly strong, according to a representative of an auto dealers association. While wet and cool weather slowed May and June tourism-related activities in
some areas, tourism businesses were optimistic for the summer season. New boat
registrations in Minnesota were down 17 percent in 2013 compared with the same time
period in 2012. Nevertheless, a Minnesota state tourism office survey of lodging and
camping businesses in the state showed that 38 percent expect higher occupancy this
summer with 46 percent expecting level occupancy. After a slow start to the summer
season, lodging reservations and traffic to tourism destinations in the Upper Peninsula of
Michigan have picked up. In Montana, lodging and visits to attractions during the first
part of summer were up from last year.
Construction and Real Estate
Commercial construction activity continued to increase since the last report. The value of
June commercial permits in Billings, Mont., increased significantly from last year, while
hotel building rose to $6 million in June compared with zero in the first six months of
2012. A manager of an industrial real estate company noted increased interest in building
warehouses on speculation because some purchase prices for existing structures are
higher than the cost of building new. Several national retailers are opening new stores
this year in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area. However, in Sioux Falls, S.D., the value of

 IX-2
June permits was down from a year ago. Residential construction increased at a fast pace
over past year. The value of June single-family residential building permits in Billings
was up 28 percent from last year; multifamily building also increased significantly. The
value of June residential permits in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area was up by 19 percent
from June of 2012, while it fell in Sioux Falls. Activity in commercial real estate markets increased since the last report. The
University of St. Thomas semiannual survey (May) of 50 Minneapolis-
St. Paul commercial real estate leaders noted higher rents, occupancy, land prices and
building material costs. Minneapolis-St. Paul area second quarter vacancy rates dropped from
the first quarter for retail and industrial space, according to a research firm. Residential real
estate market activity increased at a robust pace. May home sales were up 13 percent from
the same period a year ago in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area; the inventory of homes for sale
was down 22 percent, and median sale prices rose 15 percent. In the Sioux Falls area, June
home sales were up 16 percent, inventory was down 15 percent and the median sale price
increased 5 percent relative to a year earlier.
Services
Activity at professional business services firms increased since the last report. In
Minneapolis, a technology consulting firm reported a recent expansion and an intellectual
property protection firm is expanding. A lawyer at a Minnesota-based firm noted an
uptick in corporate legal work.
Manufacturing
The District manufacturing sector continued to expand since the last report. A June
survey of purchasing managers by Creighton University (Omaha, Neb.) found that more
manufacturing firms increased activity in Minnesota and the Dakotas than in previous
months. An electronic equipment producer is moving forward on a plant in Minnesota.
Another Minnesota firm that makes cable for utilities and telecommunications companies
reported strong sales during the past few months. Several contacts in the metal forming
business reported that they were having very strong years, with a few reporting their best
year ever. A firm that supplies capital equipment to that industry is seeing strong
demand; the auto sector was a particular source of strength.
Energy and Mining
Activity in the energy sector increased moderately, while mining activity was sluggish.
Late-June oil and gas exploration activity increased slightly in North Dakota from the last

 IX-3
report and was flat in Montana. A Minnesota utility announced plans for $1.8 billion in
upgrades to existing nuclear power plants. Recent output at District iron ore mines was
below year-earlier levels. However, development will resume on a stalled copper-nickel
mine project in the Upper Peninsula after the mine was sold to another company.
Agriculture
The agricultural sector weakened since the last report. District farmers made progress
after a late spring, but remain behind the five-year average for corn and soybean
plantings due to recent heavy rains. In some areas, farmers are expected to switch from
corn to soybeans due to the weather. Prices increased from a year earlier for wheat, corn,
soybeans, chickens, milk, hogs, cattle and eggs; prices fell for turkeys and dry beans. The
late plantings, along with concerns about warmer and drier weather later this summer,
caused the USDA to increase its corn price forecast slightly, though prices are still
expected to decrease from current levels.
Employment, Wages and Prices
Labor markets continued to tighten slightly. In North Dakota, a health care administrative
services firm plans to hire 375 new employees by September. A wind tower manufacturer
recently announced plans to hire 250 workers in South Dakota when site construction is
completed next year. A pipeline company plans to add 110 jobs in Minnesota. May
Minnesota unemployment insurance claims were down 2 percent from a year earlier; data
in recent months have averaged close to prerecession levels. However, a cellular phone
company recently announced plans to lay off 50 employees at a plant in North Dakota. A
software distributor announced plans to move its corporate headquarters out of
Minnesota, eliminating 150 jobs in the state. In May, federal government employment in
Minnesota was at its lowest level in more than 20 years, while state government
employment was at its lowest level since January 2008. Wage increases were moderate. According to a recent St. Cloud (Minn.) Area
Quarterly Business Report, 52 percent of respondents expect to increase compensation
over the next six months, while 45 percent expect no change. In last year’s survey, 38
percent expected to increase compensation, while 58 percent expected no change. Price increases were subdued since the last report. A Minnesota-based food
producer noted that it expects input cost inflation of 3 percent this year. Metals prices
decreased over the past month. Minnesota gasoline prices decreased 90 cents per gallon
from a spike in prices at the end of May; recent prices were about the same as a year ago.

 X-1 TENTH DISTRICT - KANSAS CITY The Tenth District economy grew modestly in June, and expectations for future activity
improved slightly. Tourism and restaurant sales edged up, while retail and automobile sales were
steady since the last survey. District manufacturers reported slowdowns in production and
shipments, principally due to regional storms over the survey period. Residential real estate
activity continued to be strong, while commercial real estate activity marginally increased.
Overall banking conditions improved slightly, with marginally higher loan demand and generally
better loan quality. Agricultural growing conditions improved somewhat with recent rains, which
led to a drop in expected harvest prices for corn and soybeans. District drilling and mining
activity was flat, though energy contacts expected stronger oil and natural gas drilling in coming
months. District contacts from most sectors reported little change in prices for food, building
supplies and raw materials. Labor shortages ticked up, but wage pressures remained modest. Consumer Spending. Consumer spending edged up in June, with increased tourism and
restaurant spending, but little change in automobile and retail sales. Contacts in most sectors
expected consumer spending to improve over the next three months. District retail sales were flat
over the survey period. Purchases of large ticket items, such as appliances, slowed relative to
lower-priced goods. Tourism activity and hotel occupancy rates both rose relative to the last
survey period, but were similar to levels a year ago. Average daily room rates were unchanged
and were expected to remain the same in the coming months. Restaurant sales ticked up since the
last survey, and respondents expected similar levels of activity over the next few months.
Automobile dealers reported sales were steady and above year-ago levels, but inventories
continued to increase. The majority of dealers still expected faster sales growth in the coming
months. Manufacturing and Other Business Activity. Manufacturing activity contracted
slightly in June, while high-tech activity rose and transportation was flat. A number of factories
reported production delays and shipment interruptions due to recent regional storms and
flooding. Activity was especially weak among producers of food and machinery. However,
expectations for future factory activity continued to increase. High-tech service firms reported
that sales improved during the survey period, but activity was expected to be flat over the next
three months. Transportation activity and capital expenditures were unchanged in June compared

 X-2
to the previous survey period. Transportation firms reported difficulty finding qualified drivers,
and some anticipated increased costs due to compliance with the Affordable Care Act. Real Estate and Construction. Residential real estate activity remained robust, while
commercial real estate activity ticked up in June. Residential real estate sales continued to rise.
Prices continued on an upward trend while inventories were somewhat lower compared to the
prior survey period. Contacts in some District markets reported that low inventories slowed sales
and put upward pressure on prices. Views on the likely impact of rising interest rates were
mixed. Some contacts expected that recent increases in mortgage rates would encourage more
people to buy before rates increased further, while others anticipated a reduction in activity.
Recent storm damage to homes in some parts of the District was also expected to add to the
demand for housing in those areas. Residential builders reported solid construction activity, with
expectations for further modest growth. Commercial real estate activity ticked up during the past
month, as construction activity continued to strengthen. Sales prices held steady, and vacancy
rates fell further in some areas. Contacts expected stronger activity in coming months, but
several noted uncertainty around rising interest rates. Banking. Bankers reported slightly stronger overall loan demand, moderately improved
loan quality, and slightly lower deposit levels. Respondents reported stable demand for
commercial real estate and consumer installment loans. Demand for commercial and industrial
loans increased, while demand for residential real estate loans declined. Nearly all bankers
reported slight improvements in loan quality compared to a year ago. They also expected loan
quality to marginally improve over the next six months. Credit standards remained unchanged in
all major loan categories and respondents reported slightly lower deposits. Agriculture. Agricultural production expectations improved somewhat with recent rains,
but varied regionally. Summer storms eased dry conditions in eastern parts of the District, though
drought persisted in western regions. The winter wheat harvest was underway or complete in
Oklahoma and Kansas with highly variable yields depending on the extent of drought and freeze
damage. Despite expectations of a poor wheat harvest in some areas, wheat prices fell since the
last survey period. The corn and soybean crops, however, were rated in mostly good or better
condition with the improved soil moisture. Although corn and soybean prices remained
historically high, improved growing conditions led to a drop in expected harvest prices for both
crops. Feedlot operators struggled with high input costs and falling cattle prices, but losses
narrowed for hog producers after a rebound in hog prices. Cropland values moved higher but

 X-3
were expected to hold steady during the growing season. Energy. District energy activity held steady over the survey period. Overall, drilling
activity remained stable for both oil and natural gas in June. With oil prices elevated and natural
gas prices low, drilling activity was expected to continue to shift away from natural gas to oil.
However, energy contacts expected oil and natural gas drilling to accelerate over the next few
months. Wyoming coal production was unchanged in June, but demand has weakened over the
past year. Ethanol production continued to edge higher, and inventories trended down as
profitability in the sector improved modestly. Wages and Prices. Wage pressures remained low during June, and prices were generally
unchanged during the survey period. The percentage of firms reporting labor shortages increased
slightly, but recent wage increases remained modest. Firms reported strong demand for long haul
drivers, delivery drivers, skilled auto technicians and hotel housekeeping staff. Retail prices were
steady during June, and retailers did not expect to raise prices over the next three months. Menu
prices and food costs were flat during the survey period. Food costs were expected to rise over
the next three months, but most restaurants did not anticipate passing the increases through to
consumers. Raw material prices for manufacturers were unchanged in June, but expectations did
move up moderately. Finished goods prices increased slightly, but manufacturers projected
future finished goods prices would be lower. Construction supply firms and builders reported
that prices for construction materials were unchanged and neither expected prices to rise over the
next three months. Similarly, transportation firms responded that input prices were flat.

 XI-1
  ELEVENTH DISTRICT—DALLAS The Eleventh District economy generally expanded at a slightly stronger pace over the past six
weeks than during the previous reporting period. Manufacturing activity increased somewhat overall, with
stronger reports from metals and petrochemical producers. However, retail sales were flat after rising in
the previous six weeks, and auto sales softened slightly. Nonfinancial services firms noted a continued
rise in activity, and demand for accounting services grew at a stronger pace. The housing sector continued
to improve, with a rise in new construction. Office and industrial leasing activity remained strong.
Financial institutions noted growth in loan demand was stronger than six weeks ago, and energy activity
remained at high levels. Drought continued to dampen the agricultural sector. Prices held steady at most
Eleventh District reporting firms, and employment levels were flat overall with scattered reports of hiring. Prices Most responding firms said prices were stable, although there were some reports of
increases. Airline ticket prices rose slightly because of summer demand, and transportation service firms
expect shipping rates to increase due to a recent upturn in jet fuel prices. Home prices rose rapidly as
demand continued to outstrip supply. Financial institutions reported a notable rise in mortgage rates.
Accounting contacts said billing rates stabilized after earlier increases were successfully implemented.
Retail prices were unchanged since the last report. Oil prices rose slightly over the reporting period. Natural gas prices fell below $4 per mcf.
Gasoline prices edged down and diesel prices increased. Labor Market Employment held steady at most responding firms, although there were more
reports of hiring than at the time of the last report. Nominal employment increases were reported by
retailers, and hiring was noted by some primary metals and cement manufacturers. Accounting and legal
firms continued to add workers in selected business areas. A railroad contact reported employment
growth, but the hiring was concentrated outside the Eleventh District. Difficulty finding qualified workers
became more widespread, with scattered reports among accounting, finance, single-family construction,
auto sales, and primary metals manufacturing firms, as well as from retailers in the Eagle Ford Shale area. Wage pressures remained mostly subdued, although increased compensation was reported in
accounting and legal services. Manufacturing Manufacturing activity improved slightly over the reporting period.
Construction-related manufacturers said demand was flat or up, and a cement producer noted very strong
demand from residential construction, allowing the company to choose which projects to take on.
Outlooks were more optimistic than in prior periods. Primary metals manufacturers said demand held
steady at strong levels, although there wasn’t much enthusiasm regarding the remainder of the year. An

 XI-2
 
exception was commercial construction-related demand, which is expected to pick up. Fabricated metals
firms noted improved demand and positive outlooks. High tech orders and production were flat to slightly up since the last report. Semiconductor
manufacturers reported some improvement in demand for memory equipment but weakness for logic
devices. Demand is expected to be flat in the second half of the year, although there was increased
concern that orders may weaken. Paper manufacturers said demand was less volatile than earlier in the year, and business is
expected to stay roughly at current levels in the near-term. Food producers said demand held steady and
outlooks remained positive. Transportation manufacturing contacts reported steady or slightly increased demand, with
business generally improved from a year ago. Most firms expect strong demand through year end. Petrochemical producers noted some pickup in activity since the last report, although most
markets were stable. Contacts remained positive in their domestic outlooks, but global weakness was
weighing on the overall picture. Refiners said operating rates and margins were up over the reporting
period. Retail Sales Retail sales volumes held steady over the reporting period and were up from a year
ago. Outlooks for the rest of the year were positive, with growth expected to continue at about the same
pace as in the first half. Automobile sales were slightly softer than six weeks ago but remained strong. Demand was up
year over year. Selling prices held steady at very competitive levels over the reporting period. Outlooks
for the third quarter were optimistic, and contacts expect the rest of 2013 to be strong. However, there
was continued concern about rising costs, particularly from the Affordable Care Act. Nonfinancial Services Most nonfinancial services firms noted increased demand since the last
report, although staffing services contacts offered mixed reports: high-level IT workers and engineering
project managers were in high demand, while demand weakened for lower-skilled positions. One staffing
services firm saw more placements at the end of the quarter than usual. Accounting firms reported a
strong increase in demand since the last Beige Book, led by transactions work. There was a good backlog
of work, so contacts are expecting a strong third quarter. Legal firms noted modest demand growth, but
work was down year-over-year on a per-lawyer basis. Real estate work continued to rise, although
lawyers became somewhat concerned about interest rate risk. Contacts noted a lack of litigation work, and
demand for energy work experienced a little softness although it remained strong. Firms expect to see
improvement on a year-over-year basis in the fourth quarter. Transportation service firms said cargo and container volumes increased over the reporting
period, except for air cargo, which held steady. Railroad contacts reported a slight increase in overall

 XI-3   volumes, with notable increases in motor vehicles and crushed stone. Container volumes were up strongly in May, and retail trade continued to lead the growth in small parcel shipments, which increased in May for the third consecutive month. Outlooks were generally less positive than at the time of the last report. Airline contacts noted a seasonal increase in passenger demand over the past six weeks, with demand roughly in line with year-ago levels. Firms expect demand to slow as the leisure travel period ends. One contact expects 2013 to be about the same or slightly better than 2012, while another has an uncertain outlook. Construction and Real Estate Activity in the housing sector continued to grow at a strong pace over the reporting period. Single-family home sales continued to outpace supply, leading to very low inventories and rapid price increases. Building activity picked up but was not yet able to meet demand in the major metro areas. Slightly higher mortgage rates are not expected to derail demand, according to most contacts. Apartment demand remained at high levels. Apartment construction rose in the major metros, where occupancies were above 90 percent. Leasing activity for office and industrial space was strong over the past six weeks, particularly in Houston and Dallas. Construction activity picked up in both Houston and Dallas, with numerous office and industrial projects underway. Contacts noted that the recent increase in interest rates has caused concern in the commercial investment markets, although the impact has been minimal so far Financial Services Financial institutions experienced moderate growth in loan demand.
Commercial real estate and transactions lending increased solidly, especially in oil and gas areas around the
Eagle Ford Shale and West Texas. Demand for auto loans grew strongly. Loan quality was good and
continued to improve, and borrowers were still paying down debt rapidly. Loan pricing remained extremely
competitive, and community banks were often outbid by regional banks. Mortgage rates rose in June.
Deposits and deposit rates were flat to slightly down. The outlook for loan demand is optimistic, with a robust
pipeline for mortgages. Energy Energy activity was little changed at high levels. Global demand held steady, although there was some weakness from Mexico and Canada. Respondents expect improvement in energy activity in the second half of the year, due in part to anticipated increases in rig activity and production from the Gulf of Mexico. Agriculture Much of the Eleventh District remained in severe drought, with conditions little changed from the last reporting period. Row crop farmers completed planting, and crop conditions were mostly fair to good, according to respondents. The wheat harvest continued, but production was sharply reduced as a very large share of the acres planted was abandoned because of drought and freeze damage. Livestock feedlots and meat processors continued to suffer greatly from high feed costs and a shrinking cattle herd.

 XII - 1 TWELFTH DISTRICT–SAN FRANCISCO
Summary Economic activity in the Twelfth District expanded at a modest pace during the reporting period
of late May through early July. Price inflation was minimal for most final goods and services, and upward
wage pressures were mostly muted. Retail sales of goods grew modestly overall, although demand for
business and consumer services was mixed. District manufacturing activity improved. Production and
sales of agricultural items expanded. Demand for housing strengthened, and commercial real estate
activity trended up further. Contacts from financial institutions reported increased overall loan demand.
Prices and Wages Price inflation was minimal for most final goods and services. Food industry contacts noted price
increases for some protein items, including fish, poultry, and beef. Reports from health-care organizations
mentioned that the pace of increases in insurance premiums has slowed. Competitive industry pressures
constrained fees for legal and accounting services. Driven by demand, prices of some construction inputs,
such as logs, edged up further. Contacts reported that upward wage pressures were muted overall. Slack in the labor market held
back wage gains in most sectors, occupations, and regions. However, firms in various industries
continued to compete vigorously for a limited pool of qualified workers to fill certain technical positions,
spurring significant wage growth for occupations such as software developers.
Retail Trade and Services Retail sales grew modestly. Grocery and apparel retailers noted modest sales growth at retail
store locations and relatively strong sales growth online. The retail grocery industry in particular appears
to be shifting away from traditional large stores and towards e-commerce. Most contacts’ outlook for
consumer spending improved slightly since the prior reporting period. Contacts noted that an increase in
demand for new devices has spurred some technology firms to expand their medium-term hiring plans.
Suppliers of food and beverage products noted improved conditions, although sales of selected
discretionary items, such as pet supplies, were a bit soft. As home purchases have increased, so has

 XII - 2
spending on housing-related products, such as furniture. New and used automobile sales were robust, and
some dealers expanded their inventories in anticipation of a further pickup in summer sales. Demand for business and consumer services remained mixed. Robust activity in Hawaii
supported the District’s travel and tourism sector, although there is some concern that the flow of
international visitors could subside in coming months due to weakness in the global economy. After
slipping early in the year, travel and tourist activity in Southern California appeared to pick up somewhat
toward the end of the second quarter. However, tourist activity in Las Vegas remained soft through the
first half of 2013. Demand for elective health-care services stayed relatively weak, while demand for
other discretionary services, such as restaurant dining, appeared to strengthen.
Manufacturing District manufacturing activity grew overall in the reporting period of late May through early
July. Although demand was weak for some electronic components, contacts indicated substantial
increases in new orders for semiconductors. Led by launches of innovative products, demand for
pharmaceuticals gained further. Wood product manufacturers appeared to ramp up output to levels that
exceeded demand in recent weeks. As such, firms are expected to pare back production plans for the
second half of the year. Demand for steel products used primarily in nonresidential construction
continued to increase. Steel producers reported that capacity utilization ticked up a bit further, and reports
of intensified energy usage across multiple goods-producing sectors in the Pacific Northwest implied
improved capacity utilization in the region.
Agriculture and Resource-related Industries Agricultural sales and production activity expanded. Demand was strong for most crop and
livestock products. However, some contacts expressed concern about the lack of availability of manual
laborers. Insufficient water also was a concern in parts of the District, with this year’s rain and snow pack
levels running well below seasonal norms. Contacts from the oil and gas industry faced challenges
finding qualified geologists, geophysicists, and drillers to fill open positions. Inventories of natural gas
rose further, and demand for gasoline edged up. Reports from the utilities industry indicated that business

 XII - 3
demand for electricity from wood products and aerospace firms has risen robustly, although overall
demand growth was more modest.
Real Estate and Construction Demand for housing strengthened substantially, and commercial real estate activity continued to
trend up in most areas. Both sales transactions and house prices climbed further in many District cities.
The pace of housing starts exceeded the expectations of some contacts. In some areas, the supply of
homes for sale remained low, and some properties have received multiple offers from prospective buyers.
Construction of multifamily residential projects increased on balance. Commercial real estate activity
expanded rapidly in some major metropolitan areas, even though construction of publicly funded
commercial projects has slowed in some regions due to funding constraints from state and local
governments.
Financial Institutions Reports from financial institutions indicated that loan demand continued to increase. Contacts
noted an uptick in applicants seeking residential construction loans and commercial office building
mortgages. In line with reports of an improved outlook for business investment, banking contacts
indicated that some firms have recently expanded their borrowing in order to invest in long-deferred
expansion and capital improvement plans. Although banking contacts highlighted generally stiff
competition for well-qualified business borrowers, they also noted more lending opportunities. However,
hiring plans were mixed, with some financial institutions expecting to expand their payrolls significantly
and others mentioning possible layoffs. In the District’s Internet and digital media sectors, mergers and
acquisitions activity stepped up in recent months. However, the pace of initial public offerings remained
slow, and both venture capital and private equity activity were relatively weak.

