 For use at 2:00 p.m., E.S.T. Wednesday June 8, 2011
Summary of Commentary on ____________________ Current Economic Conditions By Federal Reserve District May 2011

SUMMARY OF COMMENTARY ON CURRENT ECONOMIC CONDITIONS BY FEDERAL RESERVE DISTRICTS MAY 2011

 TABLE OF CONTENTS
SUMMARY ……..…………..…………………………………………….………....i
First District - Boston ………..………………………………………..…….……...I-1
Second District - New York ….……………………………………………………II-1
Third District - Philadelphia ….……………………………………………......…III-1
Fourth District - Cleveland ….……………………………………...…………….IV-1
Fifth District - Richmond ….……………………………………...…...…………..V-1
Sixth District - Atlanta ….……………………………………..…...……………..VI-1
Seventh District - Chicago ….………………………………………...………….VII-1
Eighth District - St. Louis ….…………………………………..…...….………..VIII-1
Ninth District - Minneapolis ….…………………………………...……………...IX-1
Tenth District - Kansas City ….………………………………………...…...……..X-1
Eleventh District - Dallas ….…………………………………………….………..XI-1
Twelfth District - San Francisco ….…………………………...……………...…XII-1

 i SUMMARY* Reports from the twelve Federal Reserve Districts indicated that economic activity
generally continued to expand since the last report, though a few Districts indicated some
deceleration. Some slowing in the pace of growth was noted in the New York, Philadelphia,
Atlanta, and Chicago Districts. In contrast, Dallas characterized that region’s economy as
accelerating. Other Districts indicated that growth continued at a steady pace. Manufacturing
activity continued to expand in most parts of the country, though a number of Districts noted
some slowing in the pace of growth. Activity in the non-financial service sectors expanded
at a steady pace, led by industries related to information technology and business and
professional services. Consumer spending was mixed, with most Districts indicating steady to modestly
increasing activity. Elevated food and energy prices, as well as unfavorable weather in some
parts of the country, were said to be weighing on consumers’ propensity to spend. Auto sales
were mixed but fairly robust in most of the country, though some slowing was noted in the
Northeastern regions. Widespread supply disruptions—primarily related to the disaster in
Japan—were reported to have substantially reduced the flow of new automobiles into
dealers’ inventories, which in turn held down sales in some Districts. Widespread shortages
of used cars were also reported to be driving up prices. Tourism activity improved in most
Districts.
* Prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and based on information collected on or before May 27,
2011. This document summarizes comments received from businesses and other contacts outside the Federal
Reserve and is not a commentary on the views of Federal Reserve officials.

 ii Residential construction and real estate continued to show widespread weakness,
except in the rental segment, where market conditions have strengthened and construction
activity and development have picked up. Non-residential real estate leasing markets have
been generally stable, while construction activity has remained very subdued. Loan demand
was steady to stronger in most Districts, especially in the commercial and industrial sector,
and widespread improvement was reported in credit quality. Agricultural conditions were unfavorable across much of the nation, largely reflecting
unseasonably cool and wet weather; widespread flooding along the Mississippi River
hampered agricultural production in the Atlanta and St. Louis Districts. In the Dallas
District, in contrast, drought conditions hurt the wheat crop and led to broader damage from
wildfires. The energy industry showed continued strength, with robust expansion in oil
drilling and extraction activity. Labor market conditions continued to improve gradually across most of the nation,
with a number of Districts noting a short supply of workers with specialized technical skills.
Wage growth generally remained modest, though there were scattered reports of steeper
increases for highly skilled workers in certain occupations. Most Districts continued to
report widespread increases in commodity prices; manufacturers are said to be passing along
a portion of the higher costs in the form of price hikes and fuel surcharges.
Consumer Spending and Tourism Consumer spending was generally described as steady to up modestly since the last
report, with most Districts indicating small increases from a year ago. Non-auto retail sales
were indicated to be expanding steadily in the Philadelphia, Cleveland, Minneapolis, Kansas
City and Dallas Districts, while sales were characterized as stable or decelerating in the New

 iii
York, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis and San Francisco Districts. Sales were reported to have
declined in the Richmond District, and Boston described sales as mixed but generally down
from a year earlier. Retail inventories were generally said to be at satisfactory levels, though
St. Louis characterized inventory levels as being on the high side. A number of Districts
noted that a combination of unfavorable weather and high fuel and food prices have weighed
on consumer spending in recent weeks. Cleveland and San Francisco noted increased
spending on discretionary items, and Philadelphia indicated that some luxury goods retailers
fared relatively well. On the other hand, Chicago reported a decline in discretionary
spending. Most Districts reporting on vehicle sales indicated that they have been steady to
stronger since the last report, specifically Richmond, Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas City, Dallas
and San Francisco. In addition, Atlanta noted firm demand for automobiles. On the other
hand, some softening in car sales was noted in the northeastern Districts of New York,
Philadelphia and Cleveland. Many Districts indicated that supply disruptions, primarily from
Japan, have contributed to lean inventories, which have impeded auto sales somewhat. There
has also been widespread tightening in the market for used cars, reflecting both strong
demand and a shortage of inventory. Shifts in consumer demand toward smaller, more fuel
efficient cars were noted in the Philadelphia, Cleveland, and Chicago Districts, while St.
Louis mentioned a shift from higher-end to lower-end models. Tourism activity has generally strengthened since the last report, and the outlook for
the summer season looks positive. Improvement in this sector was reported in the Richmond,
Atlanta, Kansas City, and San Francisco Districts; in addition, New York reported that
tourism increased in April but appeared to edge back in early May. Dallas maintained that

 iv
travel activity has been mixed, while Minneapolis indicated that tourism has been slow
recently due to adverse weather, but that inquiries and advance bookings for the summer
season look strong. St. Louis noted that flooding forced the temporary closure of numerous
casinos along the Mississippi River.
Nonfinancial Services Activity in the non-financial service sectors continued to strengthen in most Districts,
with the notable exception of St. Louis, which reported fairly widespread declines. Service
sector activity generally expanded in the Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Richmond,
Minneapolis, Kansas City and Dallas Districts, though Richmond noted deceleration in the
pace of growth. There were also pockets of strength in particular sectors. Information
technology firms saw activity expand in the Boston, Richmond, Minneapolis, Kansas City,
and San Francisco Districts. Employment agencies in the Boston and Chicago Districts
indicated continued improvement in activity, while New York and Dallas reported some
slowing in this industry. New York, Richmond and Minneapolis cited strengthening in
business and professional services, while San Francisco indicated steady to mixed activity in
this sector. Activity in the transportation sector improved in the Cleveland, Atlanta, Kansas City
and Dallas Districts. Philadelphia and Richmond noted some slowing in growth, and New
York reported steady shipping activity, while San Francisco indicated a slowdown in cargo
traffic at Southern California seaports. Dallas also reported weakening in container trade
volumes but noted increases in cargo volume, railroad shipments and small parcel shipments.

 v
Manufacturing Manufacturing activity was reported as continuing to increase since the last report in
all but two districts, although many noted that the pace of growth had slowed. The Boston,
Atlanta, St. Louis, Minneapolis, and San Francisco, Districts reported that activity expanded,
and the Dallas District reported a pickup in demand; the Philadelphia, Richmond, Chicago,
and Kansas City Districts reported that activity expanded but at a slower pace, while activity
was reported as steady in the New York District and stable to growing in the Cleveland
District. Supply disruptions related to the earthquake in Japan led to reduced production of
automobiles and auto parts in several Districts. The Cleveland District noted a sharp drop in
auto production, the Atlanta and St. Louis Districts also saw production fall, and auto
deliveries were reported as having declined in the Richmond District. The Atlanta District
said lost production in its region would be made up later in the year. Contacts in the Chicago
District said that contingency plans to deal with supply disruptions were helpful in mitigating
the effects. High-tech firms in the Boston and Dallas Districts reported that shortages of
parts, due to disruptions in Japan, had adverse effects on business; in contrast, there were few
supply constraints that affected technology-related products in the San Francisco District. Growth was reported as strong for semiconductors in the San Francisco and Boston
Districts. The Cleveland District reported that steel producers were seeing shipping volumes
level off after a strong first quarter performance, and the Chicago District noted a decline in
second quarter orders for industrial metals, although orders for the third quarter were coming
in at a more positive pace. A contact in the Richmond District said that demand for industrial
metals had leveled off. The Chicago District reported a decline in activity for construction

 vi
materials and household goods. Production remained strong for makers of commercial
aircraft and parts in the San Francisco District. Looking forward, contacts in most districts were generally optimistic about the
outlook, although less so than the last report. The Cleveland District said that the majority of
manufacturing contacts maintained a favorable outlook, although some are delaying the start
of capital projects. Contacts were generally cautiously optimistic in the Boston District,
although some expect sales growth to moderate. Contacts were mostly positive about the
outlook in the Philadelphia District, though the level of optimism was not quite as strong as
in the last report. Chicago District contacts expect conditions to rebound in the coming
months. A majority of contacts in the Atlanta District planned to increase production.
Real Estate and Construction Residential real estate sales markets showed continued weakness in most Districts,
while rental markets strengthened. Most Districts indicate that home prices have declined
since the last report: Boston, Philadelphia, Richmond, Atlanta, Kansas City, and San
Francisco all report some downward drift in selling prices, while reports from the New York
and Cleveland Districts indicate that prices have been steady, on balance. No district
indicates a general increase in home prices. Sales activity, though widely reported to be at
low levels, picked up somewhat in the Philadelphia, Atlanta, Chicago, and Kansas City
Districts. Dallas indicated that improved traffic has raised prospects of improved sales in the
second half of 2011, and Boston observed signs that the market is stabilizing. Sales activity
was characterized as mostly steady in the New York, Cleveland, Dallas and San Francisco
Districts, but declining in the St. Louis and Minneapolis Districts. Those Districts reporting
on the residential rental market—specifically, New York, Atlanta, Chicago, Minneapolis,

 vii
Dallas, and San Francisco—all indicate that conditions have strengthened. In terms of
residential construction, activity has remained generally depressed, with a number of
Districts reporting a large overhang of distressed properties. However, a number of
Districts—New York, Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago, and San Francisco—report improved
prospects for development of multi-family rental properties. Commercial and industrial real estate markets have generally been steady since the
last report, though there have been scattered signs of a pickup. Commercial leasing markets
showed modest signs of improvement in the Richmond and San Francisco Districts. Boston
and Dallas noted some firming in property sales markets, but Kansas City reported declines
in prices for office buildings. Non-residential construction, though widely reported to be at
very low levels, rose modestly in the Boston, Chicago, Minneapolis, and Dallas Districts,
though Chicago noted that public sector projects are becoming smaller. Cleveland observed
a pickup in industrial and high-end commercial development but a pullback in healthcare-
related projects. Richmond reported some pockets of strength in the retail market. More
broadly, contacts in a number of Districts expressed a general sense of optimism about the
outlook for the second half of 2011.
Banking and Finance Most Districts described loan demand as mixed or slightly improved since the last
report. Consumer loan demand showed some improvement in the Cleveland, Richmond, and
St. Louis Districts, but held steady or weakened in the New York, Atlanta, Dallas, and San
Francisco Districts. Demand for residential mortgages (including new purchases and
refinances) increased in Cleveland but held steady in New York, Richmond, St. Louis, and
Kansas City. Contacts in the Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, Dallas,

 viii
and San Francisco Districts noted a modest uptick in business loan demand. The increase in
business loan demand in Cleveland was described as broad-based, including a pickup in
construction loan requests for multi-family dwellings. Boston noted an improved lending
environment for commercial real estate, and demand for commercial mortgages increased in
New York and Dallas. Commercial and industrial loan activity increased in Richmond,
Chicago, St. Louis, Dallas, and San Francisco, held steady in New York, and decreased in
Kansas City. Outside of banking, Chicago and San Francisco indicated increased investment
activity by hedge funds, venture capital firms, and other forms of private equity. Credit standards were reported to be mixed but, on balance, a bit easier in recent
weeks. New York, Cleveland, and Atlanta noted increased credit availability for automobile
loans; Atlanta, Minneapolis and San Francisco indicated easier credit for some types of
business loans. Boston reported some easing in commercial real estate lending, but New
York reported tighter standards in that segment. Credit standards on home mortgage loans
tightened somewhat in the St. Louis District. A number of Districts noted improvements in
overall credit quality: specifically, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Kansas City, Dallas,
and San Francisco. New York indicated rising delinquency rates on consumer loans but
declining rates on commercial loans and mortgages.
Agriculture and Natural Resources Agriculture conditions were unfavorable in many districts, with various weather
related difficulties leading to delays and below-average plantings of key crops. Excess
precipitation and cool temperatures delayed the planting of corn, soybeans, and other crops in
the Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, and Kansas City Districts, although
Richmond reported that some parts of its District benefited from favorable weather

 ix
conditions. Cool temperatures also delayed the development of some crops in the San
Francisco District. Flooding on the Mississippi River slowed activity for farmers in the St.
Louis and Atlanta Districts. The Dallas District reported that drought conditions had become
severe and that the wheat crop was expected to be particularly poor; wildfires also led to
significant agricultural losses in its District. Commodity prices were reported as strong in the
Atlanta and Minneapolis Districts, but were down in the Chicago District. Hog prices were
higher in the Chicago, Minneapolis, and Kansas City Districts, while cattle prices were
reported as lower in the Chicago and Kansas City Districts but higher in the Minneapolis and
Atlanta Districts. Activity in the energy industry remained robust. Drilling activity was reported as
strong and growing in the Dallas District, and work is being re-permitted in the Gulf of
Mexico. The San Francisco District reported that oil extraction activity grew strongly in
response to rising demand overseas, and that the demand for natural gas continued to expand.
In the Minneapolis District, oil exploration activity increased. Contacts reported an increase
in drilling activity in the Kansas City District, although shortages of equipment and labor
created some drilling constraints. The St. Louis District reported that coal production was
modestly lower.
Employment, Wages and Prices Most Districts reported gradual improvement in labor market conditions since their
last reports. Boston, New York, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and
Dallas all noted general improvement in employment conditions, while job growth was
mostly limited to the manufacturing sector in the Cleveland and St. Louis Districts. Demand
for permanent and temporary-to-permanent hiring increased in the Boston, Richmond,

 x
Atlanta, and Chicago Districts. While labor was generally available, contacts in the Boston,
Atlanta, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts indicated that labor
market conditions have tightened for workers with specialized technical skills, particularly in
the healthcare and technology sectors. Despite signs of continued modest improvement in
most labor markets, Minneapolis noted several examples of expected layoffs and St. Louis
reported plans for layoffs in the District’s services sector. Wage pressures were reported to be largely contained in most Districts, as abundant
labor availability has continued to limit the pace of wage growth. Modest wage pressures
were reported in the Boston, Cleveland, Chicago, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San
Francisco Districts, while wages were reported as steady in New York and Philadelphia.
However, contacts in the Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts
noted that wage increases have been more significant for some highly skilled workers in
occupations with labor shortages. Firms’ expectations for labor and benefits costs moderated
slightly in Atlanta. Input prices continued to increase in most Districts, particularly for agricultural
commodities, petroleum-based products, and industrial metals, although the pace of growth
slowed in the Chicago and Kansas City Districts. In addition, several Districts reported that
fuel surcharges have increased or become more widely used since the last report. While
Boston indicated that firms were able to pass along most input price increases into selling
prices, contacts in Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, Minneapolis,
Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco noted only a limited ability to pass through these cost
increases to their customers, with manufacturers generally being more successful than retail
or construction firms. In general, selling prices increased only modestly, except for food and

 xi
energy prices, which continued to escalate. In addition, low inventory levels contributed to
price increases for used cars in the New York, Cleveland, Chicago, and San Francisco
Districts. Plans to implement future increases in selling prices were reported in the Boston,
New York, Chicago, and Dallas Districts.

 I-1 FIRST DISTRICT – BOSTON
Many business contacts in the First District report improving economic conditions. Firms in
manufacturing, software and information technology, and staffing services cite ongoing
increases in demand, with manufacturers reporting the most strength. Commercial real estate
markets are improving modestly, retail reports are mixed, and residential real estate markets
remain weak. Both retailers and manufacturers report input cost increases, which they are
generally passing along to customers. Labor markets, by contrast, are seeing some net hiring,
but wage increases remain subdued. Outlooks remain generally optimistic, although cautious.
Retail
First District retailers report mixed sales results for the period from late March through mid
May, with comparable same-store sales ranging from low double-digit decreases to low
single-digit increases. A few contacted retailers mention decreases in demand, and all express
concern about the negative impact of rising fuel prices on their own costs, especially
shipping, and on consumers’ shopping habits.
Inventory levels are mixed, with one retailer explaining inventory has been temporarily
increased due to global supply concerns, such as output disruptions in Japan. Contacts note
steep price increases for commodities, including cotton, dairy, grains, meat, produce, and
nuts; they are passing along price increases where possible. Headcount changes are mixed, as
some firms add people in line with new store openings and select hiring opportunities, while
one has cut jobs and anticipates outsourcing select positions. Capital spending is mixed.
Outlooks range from concerned to cautiously optimistic.
Manufacturing and Related Services

 I-2
Business conditions continue to be good at surveyed manufacturers. A parts manufacturer for
autos and other vehicles reports that it is struggling to keep up with increased demand. A
firm in the semiconductor industry also cites very strong sales growth in the first quarter of
this year continuing into the second quarter. Reports from local pharmaceutical
manufacturers are also favorable, especially compared with the end of last year, and a
company in the medical devices business notes improving sales of its traditional product line
after a lengthy period of very sluggish growth. Overall, contacted manufacturers are
cautiously optimistic that growth will continue at a reasonable pace for the rest of the second
quarter and into the second half of the year. Some firms, however, expect sales growth to
moderate somewhat, in part because the second half of 2010 was strong for many
respondents.
Commodity prices continue to be a concern for manufacturers whose production inputs
include petroleum or gas-related products and/or firms that use a lot of metals such as steel.
Most of the affected companies have already raised prices with little push-back from their
customers, and a number of them plan to implement further price hikes this summer. By
contrast, a pharmaceutical company with overseas sales notes downward pressure on their
selling prices to government health care systems in Europe, which they attribute to ongoing
fiscal imbalances across the Euro-area and related interventions to reduce costs and
government debt. Some firms still report modest supply chain disruptions because of the
earthquake in Japan (mostly semiconductor-related and other high tech inputs) or worldwide
demand-related shortages of selected petroleum-related products. However, one affected firm
notes that supply conditions have improved slightly recently and others say they continue to
make adjustments to avoid a big impact on their production or sales.

 I-3
The employment situation at surveyed manufacturers continues to be relatively stable, as
many continue to try to increase output using existing workers. A semiconductor firm notes
that the cost of this year’s merit raises will be offset through other productivity gains, so the
overall cost impact is negligible. Those firms that are hiring are doing so at a relatively
moderate rate to meet increased demand for existing or new products. In particular, some
pharmaceutical companies plan to meet increased demand by increasing their headcounts
between 5 percent and 10 percent. Much of the hiring and investment at contacted firms is
occurring overseas as they look to expand their operations, especially in Asia. Most
respondents have already or plan to institute merit increases for their employees in 2011,
ranging between 2 percent and 5 percent, which they note are a little lower than before the
recent recession.
Capital spending at most contacted manufacturers continues to be in line with previous years.
A few companies, however, are investing more in order to adjust their capacity to meet
increased demand. Overall, the outlook for the contacted firms is favorable and most
respondents seem somewhat more upbeat than at the beginning of this year.
Software and Information Technology Services
New England software and information technology firms report modest increases in activity
through May. Year-over-year revenue increases, ranging from 4 percent to 20 percent, were
generally driven by increases in software license revenues, while maintenance contracts grew
at a slower rate. Contacts report pick-ups in demand across sectors, including manufacturing,
financial, and medical. Increased activity has led to increasing headcounts, many by more
than 5 percent from a year ago. Contacts generally cite a tightening labor market, especially
for specialized technical positions, but note that it has not resulted in upward pressure on

 I-4
wages. Selling prices are holding steady, although half of responding firms observe less
discounting pressure currently than in Q4 2010; in fact, two contacts plan to raise prices
modestly later this year. Capital and technology spending is mostly steady, with only two
contacts reporting an increase in outlays. The outlook among software and IT services firms
remains positive, with most expecting their current rate of growth to continue through the
end of 2011.
Staffing Services
The majority of New England staffing contacts report that business conditions continue to
improve, although a few have experienced stagnant or volatile activity over the past three
months. Revenues are flat to increasing year-over-year, with increases from 3 percent to 35
percent. Labor demand continues to strengthen, with notable improvements in the
information technology, medical, manufacturing, and legal sectors. However, a few contacts
lament an elongated hiring cycle, with employers “still waiting for the perfect candidate.”
Demand for permanent and temporary-to-permanent hiring continues to trend upwards—a
sign that “things are heading in the right direction.” Labor supply, at least at the high end,
continues to be tight in the region. Bill rates and pay rates are steady, with most contacts
reporting only modest changes. Looking forward, most New England staffing contacts are
more positive than they were three and six months ago, predicting strong growth in the rest
of 2011.
Commercial Real Estate
Across the region, contacts report that commercial leasing activity remains modest,
especially in the office sector where job growth has been tepid. The Hartford office market
shows very light leasing activity and negligible absorption. In Providence, office leasing

 I-5
volume was also very light, but rents are said to be firming up. Office leasing activity in
Boston is described as slow-to-moderate, and some say recent activity is slower than in the
first quarter. Boston deals consist largely of tenant renewals, resulting in little net absorption.
The biotechnology and pharmaceuticals sector in Boston is seen as comparatively dynamic,
generating strong demand for office space in Cambridge and planned new construction in
Boston’s waterfront area. In Portland, activity is flat for the most part, although at least one
significant office leasing deal was signed. Investor interest in apartments remains strong in
Boston, with some contacts expressing concern that sales prices are getting too high; interest
in prime office properties also strengthened in Boston. The lending environment for
commercial real estate is described as increasingly favorable to borrowers. The outlook
among contacts is cautiously optimistic. All expect at least slow growth in office and retail
demand for the remainder of 2011 and some see potential for significant improvement in
market conditions by early 2012, although a few mention risks posed by fiscal conditions and
related political uncertainty at both the state and national levels.
Residential Real Estate
Residential real estate markets throughout New England experienced significant declines in
sales and median prices in April compared to a year earlier. Contacts attribute the sales
declines to the homebuyer tax credit, which boosted sales for the first half of last year.
Condominium sales fell during the same period, and the median price of condos slipped
across much of the region. Most contacts see job security as a significant hurdle in the
recovery of the residential real estate market. Several contacts also note that stricter lending
requirements among large banks have shrunk the potential pool of homebuyers. In general,
contacts report that potential buyers are anticipating further price declines and sellers

 I-6
continue to price homes competitively in order to find a buyer quickly. While overall market
activity remains weak, respondents see some improvement in the medium to high-end
segments of the market.
Contacts throughout the region expect year-over-year declines to continue for the next few
months because of last year’s homebuyer tax credit. Although several contacts believe that
much of the New England real estate market has begun stabilizing, they caution that a
lengthy recovery still remains.

 II-1 SECOND DISTRICT--NEW YORK The Second District’s economy has continued to expand since the last report, though at a
somewhat diminished pace. Labor market conditions have continued to improve modestly.
Retail sales have held steady at favorable levels since the last report. Consumer confidence
reports have been mixed. Tourism activity picked up in April but tapered off a bit in early May.
Commercial real estate markets have been relatively stable. The residential purchase market
has been steady to somewhat softer, but the rental market has continued to improve; new
residential construction remains low. Finally, bankers report further weakening in consumer
loan demand, tighter credit standards on the commercial sector, and higher delinquency rates on
consumer loans but somewhat lower delinquencies in other loan categories.
Consumer Spending Retail sales have held steady since the last report and are running modestly above
comparable 2010 levels. Sales were somewhat ahead of plan, despite unseasonably cool and
wet weather, which likely had a small negative effect on spending. Two contacts—a major
retail chain and a large mall in upstate New York—report that sales weakened in the first half of
May, after a robust April. Inventories are reported to be in good shape. Selling prices have
been steady overall, though some contacts describe the pricing environment as more
promotional than a year ago. One major retail chain indicates that prices have been stable
during the first half of the year; yet moderate price increases are planned for the second half of
2011—largely for cotton-based merchandise. Auto dealers in upstate New York report that sales of new vehicles have cooled
somewhat since the first quarter but remain at fairly high levels, up moderately from a year
earlier. Some of the slowing in sales is attributed to supply disruptions related to the tsunami in

 II-2
Japan. One local auto dealers’ association reports an exceptionally low inventory of used
vehicles, which has hampered sales volume and pushed prices up. Retail credit conditions
continued to improve, while wholesale credit conditions were mixed. Consumer confidence surveys have given mixed results. Siena College reports that
consumer confidence among New York State residents fell to its lowest level of the year in
April—largely attributed to surging food and energy prices. In contrast, the Conference Board
reports that consumer confidence among residents of the Middle Atlantic states (NY, NJ, Pa)
surged in April, reaching its highest level since late 2007; the rise was largely driven by
improved perceptions of job availability. Tourism activity in New York City strengthened in April, though there were signs of
some pullback in May. Occupancy rates at Manhattan hotels moved up by more than the
seasonal norm in April, and room rates accelerated, running 5-10 percent higher than a year
earlier. Partly due to a spate of new show openings, Broadway theaters report that both
attendance and total revenues surged in April and were running 10 to 15 percent ahead of a year
earlier, after a sluggish March,. Attendance and revenues slipped in May, although both were
still up from a year earlier.
Construction and Real Estate Housing markets across the District have been mixed since the last report: the home
purchase market has been steady to somewhat softer, but the rental market has continued to
strengthen. Buffalo-area Realtors report steady market conditions, with sales activity and
pending sales down from a year earlier but prices up roughly 5 percent. More broadly, home
prices have been running moderately ahead of a year earlier across most of upstate New York,
despite pockets of weakness in metropolitan Rochester and Albany. However, prices in the

 II-3
New York City metropolitan area, including northern New Jersey and southwestern
Connecticut, have drifted down slightly and are modestly lower than a year ago. An authority on New Jersey’s housing industry reports that sales of existing homes have
slowed since the last report, and new home sales remained depressed. A sizable inventory of
foreclosed properties—roughly equal to nine months of sales—is reported to be putting
downward pressure on home prices overall. However, low volume and a sizable incidence of
distressed sales make it difficult to gauge price trends in northern New Jersey. Activity in New
York City’s co-op and condo market was mixed but generally stable since the last report, with
Manhattan, Brooklyn and Bronx holding steady—in terms of both prices and sales activity.
Some softening was evident in Queens and Staten Island. Long Island’s market has been stable,
though conditions have weakened in the Hamptons, where sales activity is off, especially at the
high end. In contrast with the sluggish purchase market, rental markets have performed fairly well,
particularly in New York City: Manhattan rents are reported to be up roughly 6 percent from a
year ago. Moreover, when the widespread withdrawal of landlord concessions is factored in,
the rise in effective rents has been steeper. Rental vacancy rates have drifted down. Contacts in
both New York City and northern New Jersey see relatively little new residential construction,
and note that most new and proposed development is for rental housing. Commercial real estate markets have been largely steady since the last report. Office
markets showed signs of modest improvement in New York City, Long Island, and most of
upstate New York, as vacancy rates edged down while asking rents were steady to up slightly.
However, market conditions weakened somewhat in northern New Jersey, Westchester and
Fairfield Counties, and in the Albany area. Industrial vacancy rates rose in Long Island but

 II-4
were little changed in other markets. In much of the District, asking rents on industrial
properties, which had been declining through the end of 2010, have leveled off or moved up
modestly in recent months.
Other Business Activity Reports from business contacts give a mixed picture of the labor market. A major New
York City employment agency reports that, after a robust March, hiring activity weakened
noticeably in April and early May, though it picked up again in the third week of May. Still, the
supply of available workers has dwindled further, and more workers are testing the water and
leaving current jobs for new ones. Starting salaries have remained steady and below pre-
recession levels. Law firms, in particular, have started hiring more, while financial sector hiring
has been stable. A contact in the securities industry reports that the jobs being added there tend
to be mostly in support areas, such as legal and compliance, as opposed to revenue-generating
areas. Non-manufacturing firms broadly indicate that both business and hiring activity have
been steady to modestly higher since the last report. Contacts have become slightly less
optimistic about the near term outlook and have scaled back hiring plans somewhat. Non-
manufacturing firms report that cost pressures remain widespread but have not broadened since
the last report. Manufacturing firms in the District report that business activity was generally
steady in April and early May. Contacts report that they are adding workers, on net, and plan to
continue to do so in the months ahead. Manufacturers also note increasingly widespread price
pressures, and roughly two in five say they plan to hike their selling prices in the months ahead.
A trucking-industry contact reports that shipping activity has shown no sign of slipping, despite
the recent surge in diesel prices.

 II-5
Financial Developments Reports on loan demand were mixed: small to medium sized banks indicate a decrease
in demand for consumer loans, an increase in demand for commercial mortgages, and no change
in the demand for residential mortgages and commercial and industrial loans. Respondents
indicate no change in credit standards for the household sector but a tightening of standards for
commercial loans and especially commercial mortgages. Bankers report a decrease in spreads
of loan rates over costs of funds for all loan categories—particularly on residential mortgages.
There were also fairly widespread decreases in deposit rates. Finally, delinquency rates rose for
consumer loans but decreased for commercial mortgages and, to a lesser extent, on commercial
and industrial loans. Delinquency rates on residential mortgages were unchanged.

 III-1 THIRD DISTRICT – PHILADELPHIA Business activity in the Third District has improved overall since the last Beige Book,
although the pace has softened. Manufacturers reported increases in shipments and new orders
in May, although at a much slower pace than the past two months. Retailers posted slight year-
over-year sales increases in May. Motor vehicle dealers reported a slowdown in sales during
May compared with the first four months of the year. Third District banks reported little overall
change in loan volume outstanding, on balance, since the last Beige Book. Residential real
estate agents said sales have increased seasonally, but house prices have been flat to down.
Contacts in the commercial real estate sector said that market conditions have shown little
change since the first quarter. Service-sector firms reported modest increases in activity.
Business contacts reported further price increases for inputs as they did in the previous Beige
Book. There have been some retail price increases, and more firms in a range of sectors have
implemented fuel surcharges. Expectations among Third District business contacts are mostly for slow growth.
Manufacturers forecast a modest rise in shipments and orders during the next six months.
Retailers expect sales to advance slowly on a year-over-year basis. Auto dealers say the outlook
is uncertain. Bankers expect only slight growth in lending. Contacts in residential real estate
expect moderate seasonal gains in sales, but they expect sales for this year as a whole to be
about the same as sales last year. Contacts in commercial real estate expect conditions to
improve slowly, with markets firming around the end of the year. Service-sector companies
expect continued slow growth.

 III-2
Manufacturing Reports of widespread, robust demand growth for manufactured products as of the last
Beige Book gave way to two months of easing in the breadth and pace of recovery. Less than 30
percent of Third District manufacturers reported increases in shipments and orders in May —
slipping from over 50 percent since the last Beige Book. Among key manufacturing sectors in
the Third District, the number reporting increases of both shipments and orders narrowed to 7
from 13 since the last Beige Book. The strongest reports of orders came from producers of
chemicals; food; stone, clay, and glass; and fabricated metal products. Since the last Beige
Book, declines in orders broadened from producers of apparel and rubber products to include
producers of electronic equipment and instruments. Failure to pass a multiyear transportation
infrastructure reauthorization bill and the ongoing real estate slump were cited by five different
manufacturing sectors as hampering the recovery. Third District manufacturers remain mostly positive about business conditions over the
next six months; however, the percent of firms expecting increases fell off sharply since the last
Beige Book, from 66 percent to 36 percent. Among the firms contacted in May, about 38
percent expect increases in new orders and shipments, while about 20 percent expect decreases.
A little uncertainty has crept back into manufacturers’ expectations, with several contacts citing
“swings” in activity. Capital spending plans over a six-month planning horizon have changed
little since the last Beige Book, with about one-third of firms projecting increases.
Retail Third District retailers generally reported small year-over-year increases in sales in May,
although results varied by store type. Discount stores and some luxury goods retailers posted
better increases than mid-price retailers and department stores. Retailers said sales of spring

 III-3
apparel have been held back by cool, rainy weather. Several merchants said that high gasoline
prices were deterring shopping trips and constraining consumers’ discretionary buying. Looking
ahead, store executives expect just slow growth in sales. One merchant’s comment expressed
the general opinion: “The consumer is responding to value. Only confidence in the job situation
will prompt broader buying.” Third District auto dealers generally reported that sales slowed in May from the pace set
from January through April. Some dealers said they were facing supply constraints resulting
from the interruption of Japanese vehicle and parts production, and some dealers said demand
has slowed as consumers reconsider model preferences in response to higher gasoline prices.
Dealers are uncertain of the future course of sales; most said the sales rate going forward will be
more sensitive to gasoline prices and consumer confidence than it had been earlier in the year.
Finance Third District banks contacted in May gave mixed reports on loan volume outstanding.
Some posted increases in consumer and business loans, but others reported drops in these
categories since the last Beige Book. On balance, total credit extended by banks in the region
has been flat in recent weeks. Although some bankers have had recent increases in loan demand
from small and medium businesses, most said demand for credit from this sector has been weak.
“Loan demand hasn’t moved at all,” one said, even as competition among lenders has increased.
Most of the banks surveyed in May indicated that credit quality has been improving, although
some said the pace of improvement has been slow. Looking ahead, the general view among the
region’s bankers is that loan demand will move up slightly, at best, in the near future.
Real Estate and Construction

 III-4 Residential real estate activity has picked up since the previous Beige Book in most
parts of the Third District, according to residential real estate agents contacted for this report.
Agents continued to note that the sales pace has been relatively stronger for middle- and low-
price homes and weaker for high-price homes. Agents attributed the improved sales pace to the
usual seasonal gain and buyers’ concern that mortgage loan rates are likely to increase in the
future. Looking ahead, residential real estate agents expect sales for this year as a whole to be
level with last year. An agent who remarked that “we are off the bottom, but it’s going to be a
slow comeback” expressed a common opinion. Residential agents generally reported flat to
slightly falling house prices for existing homes. New homebuilders indicated that these lower
existing home sales prices further reduced their customer traffic in May. While they see more
committed buyers among the traffic, overall demand for new homes remains flat. Commercial and industrial market conditions in the Third District have shown little
change since the previous Beige Book, according to area nonresidential real estate contacts,
although some noted that office vacancy rates have edged down slightly in some areas. Rents
have been steady in most areas, and concessions remain common. Contacts in commercial real
estate reported that demand for space in Class A office buildings has strengthened relative to
Class B space as local companies relocate upon lease expirations. “Companies are trading up
for higher quality,” one contact said. This trend is expected to continue for the rest of this year,
and any reduction in vacancy rates for less desirable buildings is expected to lag the modest
decline in Class A vacancy rates that commercial real estate agents forecast for the balance of
2011. Industrial rents have been flat, but some contacts expect them to rise toward the end of
the year as demand for space grows in the absence of new supply.

 III-5
Services Third District service-sector firms contacted for this report generally described demand
for their services as growing modestly. Business-service firms noted some increased activity as
a result of both greater usage by current clients and demand from new client companies. An
executive at a business-service firm said, “Our activity in cyclical sectors is starting to
improve.” Contacts in the transportation sector reported some recent easing in the slow, steady
growth rate that held for the first four months of the year. Contacts in engineering and
architectural services reported slight gains in current activity and a somewhat stronger upturn in
inquiries. Most of the service-sector firms polled in May expect growth to continue at around its
recent pace.
Prices and Wages Since the previous Beige Book, nearly half of all manufacturers reported rising factor
prices, especially for energy and commodities, but less than half of those firms are able to pass
costs through to their customers. However, imposition of fuel surcharges by service firms in the
region has increased. Retailers generally indicated that selling prices have been steady, except
for food products and some petroleum-based products and imports. Retailers noted that
consumers continue to favor lower price-point merchandise, and stores are continuing to alter
merchandise selection to include more of those items. Business firms in the region reported mostly steady wages since the last Beige Book.
Reports on nonwage employment costs varied; some firms indicated that benefits costs,
primarily for health insurance, have been stable, but others indicated that they have had
increases ranging up to 10 percent or more compared with a year ago.

 IV-1 FOURTH DISTRICT – CLEVELAND Business activity in the Fourth District continued to expand at a modest pace since our
last report. Manufacturers reported a slight rise in production, though several noted a softening
in market conditions. Freight transport volume increased for a broad range of manufactured
goods. Information received from retailers remained positive, while auto dealers experienced a
slight downturn in sales. Energy producers noted little change in output. New home
construction was sluggish, whereas nonresidential building is picking up some. The demand for
business credit rose slightly, and activity in consumer lending was mixed. Rising payrolls were mainly limited to the manufacturing sector. Staffing-firm
representatives noted moderate growth in the number of new job openings, with vacancies
concentrated in health care and manufacturing. Wage pressures are largely contained. Reports
of elevated prices for commodities, steel, fuel, and other raw materials were common. As a
result, manufacturers, retailers, and freight carriers passed through some of these higher input
prices to their customers. Manufacturing. Reports from District factories indicate that production was stable or
slightly up during the past six weeks, with a moderate rise in backlogs. A majority of our
contacts maintain a favorable outlook, some of which was attributed to strength in offshore
markets. However, several manufacturers said that market conditions are beginning to soften.
Many steel producers and service centers reported that the rise in shipping volume seen in the
first quarter is beginning to taper off, due in part to pricing issues and declines in consumer
demand. Shipments are being driven by capital goods, autos, and energy-related industries.
They anticipate volume remaining at current levels until a seasonal slowdown, which typically
occurs during the third quarter. District auto production dropped sharply during April on a

 IV-2
month-over-month and year-over-year basis. Most of the decline was due to supply disruptions
caused by events in Japan. Manufacturers remain committed to raising capital outlays in the upcoming months
relative to year-ago levels. Nonetheless, about a third of our contacts reported that they are
delaying the start of some projects. Capacity utilization rates are below what is considered
normal for a majority of manufacturers. Prices for metal and agricultural commodities, steel,
and petroleum-based products remain elevated. Most of our contacts reported passing through
some of these higher input prices to their customers. A few producers commented that steel and
scrap prices have peaked and are expected to begin falling back. Manufacturers continued
hiring at a modest pace, with most new hires being higher-skilled workers. Several contacts
also noted a slight increase in wage pressures. Real Estate. New home construction remains at a very low level, with purchases
mainly in the move-up buyer categories. The uptick in traffic and sales noted in our last report
was not sustained. Two of our contacts told us that more interest exists in multi-family
construction than single-family. Home builders do not expect the market to turn around any
time soon, which they attributed to tight credit, a glut of houses on the market, and the fact it
currently costs more per square foot to build a new house than to buy an existing house. List
prices and discounting of new homes held steady, while some upward pressure on the cost of
building materials was reported. Several builders said they want to construct more spec houses,
but banks are unwilling to provide financing. Subcontractors are doing somewhat better due to
facing less competition and taking on additional remodeling work. General contractors
continue to work with lean crews, and no hiring is expected in the near term. Information on nonresidential construction varied widely. However, one aspect our

 IV-3
contacts agreed on was a moderate improvement in inquiries. Activity is being driven by
industrial projects and high-end projects (greater than $100 million) that are now in the
construction phase, after several years of planning. We heard reports of a pullback in
healthcare-related work. A majority of our contacts expect that activity will slowly improve as
the year progresses. Financing is more readily available if developers are willing to increase
their equity share. We heard reports of increased prices for building materials, particularly for
steel. One contact noted that materials suppliers are holding back price increases due to a lack
of demand. Contractors are absorbing rising materials prices in their margins. General
contractors held payrolls steady, and they expect little, if any, new permanent hiring in the
upcoming months. Consumer Spending. Reports from retailers indicate that sales for the period from
early April through mid-May rose in the low to mid-single digits and were generally on or
ahead of plan. However, some of the increase was attributed to the rise in gasoline and food
prices. Transactions were mostly higher relative to year-ago levels. Many of our contacts noted
that rising sales included discretionary items. Looking forward, retailers are cautiously
optimistic about third-quarter sales. We continue to hear about rising vendor prices, although
they were mainly limited to food- and fuel-related products. Retailers passed through some of
the increases to consumers. Reports on profit margins were mixed, with declines taken
primarily by grocers. Capital outlays remain on plan and are slightly higher than year-ago
levels. No change in payrolls is expected at existing stores. Auto dealers reported that new-vehicle sales showed a slight downturn during April and
early May. March sales were given a big boost due to regional auto shows. On a year-over-
year basis, vehicle purchases increased for almost all of our contacts. Demand for smaller, fuel-

 IV-4
efficient cars continues to rise, while inventories were characterized as somewhat low by most
dealers and may be hurting sales. Dealers are cautious in their outlook due to high gas prices
and concern over the availability of vehicles with a Japanese nameplate. Demand for used cars
is fairly strong, especially those that are fuel efficient. However, scarce inventory is
contributing to rising prices. Credit availability and pricing have improved, and the use of
leasing as a credit alternative is growing. Automakers are now putting in place timetables for
dealers to complete reimaging and expansion of their facilities. The only roadblock from the
dealers’ perspective is the ability to obtain financing. Most auto dealers are beginning to hire
on a selective basis. Banking. Demand for business loans was stable or grew at a modest pace. Industries
driving loan demand were broad-based, with a few of our contacts noting a pick up in
construction loan requests for multi-family dwellings. On the consumer side, demand for home
equity lines of credit and vehicle purchases (direct and indirect) remains strong, while activity
in other installment loan categories was weak. Interest rates for business and consumer credit
were stable, but competitive. Half of our contacts noted an uptick in the residential mortgage
market, with activity equally distributed between refinancing and new purchases. Overall core
deposits continue to grow, especially in demand accounts. The credit quality of business and
consumer applicants was characterized as steady or improving. Delinquency rates were stable
or trending down across loan portfolios, with the exception of real estate. Staffing levels have
shown little change during the past few weeks, and about half of our respondents said that they
expect some selective hiring to occur during 2011. Energy. Reports indicate that oil and natural gas drilling and production held steady
during the past six weeks, with little change expected in the near term. Wellhead prices paid to

 IV-5
independent producers were flat for natural gas and continued on a modest upward trend for oil.
Coal production was stable to moderately lower since our last report, with little change
anticipated for the remainder of the year. Spot prices for coal, especially metallurgical, are
moving higher, which was attributed in part to a rise in transportation costs. We heard several
reports of increased prices for diesel fuel, equipment, parts, and materials used in coal
production. Severe spring weather in the Midwest is interfering with coal shipments to utilities
and exports from New Orleans. Energy payrolls are expected to remain at current levels. Transportation. Freight transport executives reported that shipping volume expanded
for a broad range of manufactured goods, and they expect markets will continue to grow in the
upcoming months. Several contacts told us that they are attempting to raise their shipping
prices as customer contracts come up for renewal, and they are seeing a slight bottom-line
improvement. The price for diesel fuel remains elevated, with most of the increase being
passed through to customers via surcharges. We also heard several reports about rising costs
associated with recent changes in environmental and federal safety regulations. Capital outlays
are expected to accelerate during 2011, if financing can be obtained. Spending will be mainly
for replacement, although some additions to capacity have been announced. Hiring has been for
driver replacement, seasonal work, and maintenance mechanics. Wage pressures are emerging
due to a tightening of the driver pool.

 V-1 FIFTH DISTRICT–RICHMOND Overview. Economic activity has been sending increasingly mixed signals since our last
report. The banking sector improved moderately, led by gains in commercial and industrial
lending. Tourism also strengthened, with holiday bookings expected to be above year-ago
levels. Reports on District labor markets were generally positive; however, employment agents
noted that some manufacturing clients were cautious about hiring. Residential and commercial
real estate agents generally described activity as mixed. Moreover, manufacturing lost
momentum, with several contacts noting that demand had leveled off in recent weeks. In
addition, revenue growth among non-retail service firms weakened, and retailers said that sales
fell over the last month as shopper traffic dropped sharply. Manufacturing firms reported that
input prices grew at a faster pace since our last report, but pass-through was limited and price
growth at services firms remained moderate. Manufacturing. District manufacturing cooled in May after expanding for seven
months. Several textile and apparel contacts described their business as being unpredictable,
with “very little depth.” Similarly, a producer of coated steels mentioned that, although the first
quarter had been fairly strong, order volume had been going down since then. Also, a supplier
of specialty materials reported that his business had leveled off in recent weeks because demand
for his customers’ goods had slowed. Several contacts stated that the disruptions in Japan had
affected automotive deliveries, due to lack of electronic components and paints. Firms reported
that their customers were strongly resisting any price increases, despite knowing that
commodity prices were rising. Our latest manufacturing survey revealed that prices of raw
materials rose notably over the last month, but prices of finished goods were up only
moderately.

 V-2 Retail. Retail sales generally slowed since our last report. Several firms attributed the
slowdown to higher gasoline prices. A central Virginia retailer noted that, even though
consumer confidence was good in the area, buying behavior was “tentative, as customers’ needs
were superseding their wants,” driving stores to compete aggressively on price. Apparel and
general merchandise retailers reported soft sales, and a large bookseller in central North
Carolina stated that sales had weakened over the last month. In contrast, a store manager at a
big box discount store in Virginia Beach said sales had improved in the last month and that the
store was hiring again. Most auto dealers that we contacted cited flat-to-stronger sales, despite
scattered reports of inventory or parts shortages caused by the Japanese crisis. Grocery sales
remained solid, and several contacts reported passing through price increases to their customers.
A number of surveyed wholesalers reported faster revenue growth in recent weeks. Durable
goods wholesalers generally noted a pick-up in revenues despite the reported ongoing slump in
retailers’ big-ticket sales. Retail prices edged up, and wages were little changed. Services. Contacts at non-retail services firms reported somewhat slower revenue
growth in recent weeks. Executives at several healthcare facilities noted flat demand for
services over the last month. One hospital administrator also expressed uncertainty about the
financial effect on his hospital of the increase in “newly insured” populations under healthcare
reform. He noted significant challenges for smaller, rural hospitals with respect to information
technology investments needed to secure federal matching opportunities. In contrast,
professional, scientific, and technical firms that we survey reported slightly quicker revenue
growth. Price growth at services firms was mild, while wage increases were widespread. A
healthcare system executive in central Virginia reported that salary pressures were being driven
by shortages in some specialties.

 V-3 Finance. Lending activity posted modest but broad-based gains across the District over
the last few months. Commercial and industrial lending expanded, especially for capital
equipment and storage facilities. Several community bankers also cited increasing loan demand
from small businesses. These borrowers had new orders from large manufacturers, who were
subcontracting to keep up with demand. Consumers were starting to use credit cards again,
according to several lenders, and were increasingly seeking financing for autos and home
improvements. However, a contact at a large bank in North Carolina reported making very few
home equity loans, and most bankers reported seeing little new mortgage lending activity. Most
lenders cited improvement in their balance sheet quality, with delinquencies and charge-offs
down markedly. Real Estate. Residential real estate agents in the Fifth District gave varied reports. An
agent in the D.C. area described the housing market as “terrific,” noting that April produced the
highest number of sales since June 2005, with the exception of last March and April, when sales
were boosted by the first-time buyer program. In Richmond, however, a contact mentioned that
unit sales had dropped quite a bit, along with foot traffic. Sales in the lower-price range were
reported as faring much better than sales in the upper ranges. A Realtor in Richmond said that
sales of homes in the $400,000 to $1 million price range had increased compared to a year ago.
He pointed out, however, that sales were contingent on the houses being in perfect condition,
with extremely competitive pricing. While most contacts reported that they had not seen any
change in the proportion of distressed sales, one agent noticed an increase of short sales and
stated that the entire short sale process remained a major issue for buyers. On balance, most
contacts said that transaction prices had either flattened or continued to decline.

 V-4 Commercial real estate activity was mixed across market segments and geographic areas
of the District over the last month. Pockets of modest strength were noted in demand for retail
space in the Hampton Roads area, as gains in retail sales in recent months bolstered retailers’
confidence, according to a local Realtor. A West Virginia Realtor reported that the leasing of
office space had picked up, but both retail and industrial demand remained stagnant. However,
the demand for office space in Baltimore was described as “spotty at best” by one Realtor. A
central Virginia Realtor noted improved commercial leasing activity and modest gains in
demand for the retail space, but leasing of industrial space was unchanged over the last month.
A North Carolina Realtor reported modest, but widespread improvements in leasing, while
several contacts in the DC area cited mostly softer leasing activity over the last few weeks.
Contacts generally characterized rents as having stabilized, and several Realtors stated that
banks were more willing to lend than earlier in the year. A Maryland contact in commercial
construction stated that area contractors were unable to increase prices due to weak demand, but
subcontractors were having more success at passing though increases in commodity costs. Labor Markets. Labor conditions were flat to slightly stronger since our last report.
Several employment agents were upbeat, but noted localized areas of softness in demand across
the District. Some employment agents indicated that they were placing more permanent workers
than they were a year ago. However, a branch manager of one agency in Raleigh said that some
manufacturing clients remained cautious about hiring decisions due to the instability of
incoming orders. A Hagerstown agent said, “Growth is not surging forward quite as much as a
few months ago, but we are still seeing growth in demand compared to a year ago.” He noted,
however, that gains were somewhat uneven because the demand for extra workers seemed to
come and go within short time frames, indicating volatility in his clients’ own sales and

 V-5
production. Retailers made few hiring changes in recent weeks, following an extended period of
payroll cuts, according to recent survey participants. However, the store manager at a chain
discounter in North Carolina remarked that a local manufacturer had begun recalling laid-off
workers, which included some store employees; because the manufacturing wages were more
attractive than what he could offer well-qualified applicants, he will cover the vacancies with
more hours for seasonal workers. Services providers continued to add employees, although the
overall pace of hiring in the sector slowed from a month ago. Tourism. Tourism in the District continued to show signs of improvement in recent
weeks. Airport contacts in Maryland and Virginia reported strong business travel since our last
report. In addition, recreational industries, restaurants, and hotels noted stronger revenue
growth, according to our contacts. A contact on the North Carolina coastline told us that tourist
activity had increased compared to year-ago levels, and house rentals were up as much as 20
percent or higher in the last few weeks. A tourism contact in Washington, D.C. reported that the
number of incoming tour buses was unusually high, and the nation’s capital expected more than
500,000 tourists on Memorial Day weekend. Agriculture. Rain and below-average temperatures hindered cotton planting in South
Carolina and delayed corn and soybean planting in parts of Virginia and West Virginia. In
contrast, cotton planting was almost complete in Virginia and planting of peanuts was
progressing on schedule. In Maryland and Virginia, vegetable growers continued to plant
summer crops and harvesting of greens and strawberries was well underway. Moreover, an
analyst in Maryland noted that a large amount of good quality hay had been cut and baled, due
to good drying conditions. In addition, pastures continued to green-up. Lastly, peach conditions

 V-6
in South Carolina and West Virginia ranged from fair to excellent, with most orchards in good
condition.

 VI-1 SIXTH DISTRICT – ATLANTA Summary. Sixth District business contacts reported that economic activity moderated
somewhat in April and May. Retailers experienced a deceleration in sales and traffic, which
they attributed to periods of adverse weather and high gasoline prices. Tourism-related
spending, however, increased across all segments of the industry. Homebuilders noted
continued low levels of sales and construction, while brokers cited modest improvements in
sales and traffic. In spite of declines in residential inventories, prices also decreased for both
new and existing homes. Commercial contractors reported that new construction activity
remained weak. Overall, the majority of manufacturers continued to report increases in new
orders and production. Auto manufacturers, however, reduced production because of supply
constraints stemming from the Japanese earthquake. The late April tornadoes in several states
and flooding on the lower Mississippi River had a significant impact on economic activity in the
directly affected areas, but no major damage to the energy or transportation infrastructure was
reported. Bankers reported that loan demand had improved slightly from weak levels. Labor
markets continued to improve gradually across the District. Firms expressed concern over
rising commodity costs as margins remained tight and productivity gains became more difficult
to realize. Consumer Spending and Tourism. Most District merchants signaled a deceleration in
sales in April and May after moderate increases earlier in the year. Retailers said that periodic
adverse weather conditions and high gasoline prices combined to dampen sales across the
District. Contacts reported that they continued to manage inventories tightly. The outlook
among District retailers remained optimistic. Auto dealers noted both declining inventories and
firm demand.

 VI-2 Tourism activity improved further throughout the District. Occupancy and room rates
were boosted by increases in both business and leisure travel. Convention and cruise bookings
have increased as well. Overall, contacts in the travel industry remained optimistic. Several
restaurant contacts reported that sales were somewhat softer and that higher food prices had led
to tighter margins. Real Estate and Construction. District homebuilders indicated that new home sales
and construction remained at very low levels in April and May. Several Alabama builders
reported that in many areas repairs and rebuilding from the April tornado damage was
underway. District residential brokers indicated that existing home sales growth remained slightly
ahead of the year-earlier level, but softened somewhat from March to April. However, the
majority of Florida brokers continued to experience gains. Florida contacts again noted that
distressed sales and cash buyers were significant drivers of activity. Both residential builders and brokers indicated that housing inventories eased on a year-
over-year basis. District brokers noted more modest price declines than earlier this year, while
most builders continued to cite downward pressure on home prices. Brokers reported that buyer
traffic improved, while builders indicated weaker buyer interest. Nonresidential construction activity remained at low levels during April and May.
Commercial brokers indicated that most markets continued to stabilize, but the pace of activity
remained slow. Growing demand for apartments spurred an increase in multifamily
development in several parts of the region. Overall, commercial construction activity is
expected to remain at low levels for the rest of the year.

 VI-3 Manufacturing and Transportation. District manufacturers noted an increase in new
orders and production in April and May. The majority of contacts planned to increase
production in the short-term. The exceptions were auto producers and parts suppliers that
experienced input constraints stemming from the Japanese earthquake. However, these contacts
reported that lost production would be made up later in the year as supply channels returned to
normal. District ports reported increased volumes in cargo and shipments. Air cargo contacts
noted that tonnage was returning to near pre-recession levels. Railway firms cited strong
increases in exports of chemicals, coal, and other energy-related products to China and India.
The flooding of the Mississippi River is not expected to cause long-term disruptions to maritime
traffic. Banking and Finance. Businesses outside of the construction and real estate segments
reported a slight improvement in credit availability. Banking contacts remarked that business
loan demand had improved modestly, but new firms had difficulty qualifying for credit because
of their inability to meet cash flow requirements. Bankers indicated that consumer loan demand
remained flat as consumers continued to pay down equity and consolidate debt. Credit
availability for auto loans continued to improve. Some firms continued to rely on cash reserves
for capital expenditures and expansions. District banks also noted an increase in credit requests
from agriculture customers. Employment and Prices. Labor markets continued to improve gradually across the
District. Most business contacts planned to either increase staff levels or leave them unchanged.
Firms that plan to increase employment were doing so in response to increased demand and
because they have maximized productivity with their existing staff. Staffing agencies continued
to experience high demand for temporary workers as well as an increase in temp-to-hire

 VI-4
positions. Some contacts reported difficulty finding qualified candidates to fill specialized,
higher skilled positions, especially in healthcare and communications/technology sectors. Firms
that are not increasing employment cited high operating costs and uncertainty about future
demand as constraints to hiring plans. Firms' expectations for unit cost increases have moderated slightly since the beginning
of the year as their outlook for labor and benefits costs were revised down. However, prices of
commodity-linked materials continued to rise and downward price pressures from productivity
gains were noted as tapering off. District contacts continued to report that margins remain
squeezed and their ability to raise selling prices was mixed. Natural Resources and Agriculture. The number of rigs operating in the Gulf of
Mexico is at roughly half the pre-Gulf of Mexico oil spill level. Several energy infrastructure
manufacturing firms noted an increase in capital investment. The Mississippi River flooding
has caused minor disruption to river traffic, which, in turn, may affect production in some oil
refineries and chemical plants. The interruptions are expected to be short-lived, and there are no
reports of damage to transportation or energy infrastructure. Much of the District experienced difficult weather conditions in April and May. An
abnormally cold, wet spring and severe storms have delayed planting in some areas. Producers
of poultry, cattle, and timber experienced losses as a result of the tornadoes as well. Many
farmers in Mississippi and Louisiana are experiencing some degree of flooding from the
Mississippi. Prices for many of the District's agricultural products remained strong, particularly
cotton, soybeans, and beef, although the recent record-high cotton prices have declined because
of some pull back in global demand.

 VII-1 SEVENTH DISTRICT—CHICAGO Summary. Economic activity in the Seventh District expanded more slowly in April
and May. Growth in consumer spending was slower, while the rate of increase in business
spending was steady. Manufacturing production grew more slowly, and construction was again
subdued. Credit conditions continued to improve. There was some further pass-through of
higher commodity prices to downstream prices. Planting of corn and soybeans was delayed by
wet and cool weather. Consumer spending. Consumer spending increased at a slower rate than during the
previous reporting period. Retailers reported that sales were mostly flat. Higher food and energy
prices caused consumers to make fewer shopping trips and purchase fewer discretionary items.
Auto sales edged up, as higher demand for passenger cars offset a slight decline in sales of
trucks and SUVs. Auto dealers reported that their inventory levels of small passenger cars were
starting to come under pressure due to higher than anticipated demand for fuel efficient vehicles
and production disruptions related to the situation in Japan. Dealers of Japanese vehicles expect
that supply problems will continue to affect their inventory levels for the remainder of the year.
These supply constraints were noted to be causing used car prices to rise, as well as benefitting
passenger vehicle sales of the Detroit automakers. Quality improvements were also said to have
put the Detroit 3 in a better competitive position. Business spending. Business spending increased at a steady pace in April and May.
Inventories were little changed on balance. However, a few manufacturers in the auto industry
said they had increased inventories to guard against potential future supply disruptions
stemming from the situation in Japan. Contacts indicated that capital expenditures were
proceeding as planned, with some manufacturers reporting a slight increase in capacity. There

 VII-2
also was a pick-up in merger and acquisition activity in the manufacturing sector. Labor market
conditions improved with continued strength in manufacturing, where contacts again cited a
shortage of qualified applicants for highly skilled trades. A large staffing firm reported that
billable hours ticked up and permanent placement activity continued to increase. However,
demand for temporary workers softened in some regional labor markets and remained slow in
some industries, such as finance. Construction/real estate. Construction activity was again subdued in April and May.
Single-family home construction continued to be constrained by the overhang of distressed
properties in the resale market. However, existing home sales picked up in parts of the District,
lowering the inventory of unsold homes to a degree. In the multifamily sector, the rental market
continued to improve. Residential rents rose further, and credit has become increasingly more
available for the purchase of apartment buildings. With minimal single-family and condo
development planned in the District, contacts expect to see an increase in the construction of
apartments in the near future. Nonresidential construction edged up with stronger demand from
the automotive industry, small retail projects, and renovation. Contacts indicated that while
more private sector building projects are coming up for bid, stiff competition continues to put
downward pressure on pricing. Furthermore, while public sector projects remain a source of
strength, they are becoming smaller. Commercial real estate conditions were little changed, with
vacancy rates steady and landlords keeping commercial rents low to maintain occupancy at
existing levels. Manufacturing. Manufacturing production growth slowed from the previous reporting
period, although contacts expected the recent slowdown would be temporary with conditions
expected to rebound in the coming months. Capacity utilization in the steel industry was only

 VII-3
marginally lower; and while other manufacturers of industrial metals noted a softening in orders
for second quarter delivery, several also indicated that order books for third quarter delivery
were more positive. A contact speculated that the recent volatility in industrial metals prices
was leading some customers to delay orders, expecting lower surcharges in the coming months
and to avoid getting caught holding inventory at elevated prices. Manufacturers of construction
materials and household goods also reported a decline in activity. In contrast, orders for heavy
trucks, agricultural and construction equipment were up. Fleet replacement and robust activity
in oil and gas extraction were cited as reasons for the continued strength in demand for heavy
equipment. Supply chain disruptions reduced activity in the automotive sector, but mostly for
the Japanese automakers and their suppliers. District automakers were able to avoid the most
severe dislocations by reallocating parts to vehicles that are in high demand and implementing
contingency plans for alternative supply sources. Contacts indicated that while it remains to be
seen how effective these measures will be over an extended period, these supply chain
adjustments were occurring at a faster rate than previously expected. In addition, a contact noted
that some automakers and their suppliers are moving planned summer shutdowns forward into
June to give supply chains time to repair and thus be in better position for a ramp up in
production in the third quarter. Banking/finance. Credit conditions continued to improve in April and May. Corporate
funding costs for a number of large firms in the District decreased, and contacts noted that
liquidity in corporate credit markets remains ample. Banking contacts reported a slight increase
in business loan demand. Although much of this continued to be refinancing of existing debt,
contacts noted that they were starting to see more new commercial and industrial loans in the
pipeline. Credit availability, however, remained an issue for some small business borrowers. A

 VII-4
contact noted that larger banks have recently begun to return to small business lending, but that
the loan capacity of community banks who have traditionally serviced this segment is still
impaired. Outside of banking, conditions in the municipal bond market improved and there was
an increase in investment activity by hedge funds, venture capital firms and other forms of
private equity. Prices/costs. Cost pressures increased in April before subsiding some in May. Food and
energy prices ended the period mostly lower, as did prices for steel, copper, and other industrial
metals. Despite the recent declines, commodity prices remain elevated, and surcharges for fuel,
metals, and other commodities increased significantly during the reporting period. Lead times
also continued to be longer than normal, and shortages of some raw materials were reported.
Pass-through of higher costs to prices further downstream remained moderate. Retailers
reported that they were unable to pass along much of the recent increase in wholesale prices;
and in many cases, were trying to compensate for the impact of higher food and energy prices
on consumer budgets by increasing promotions and discounts. Retail contacts also noted that
margins were tight, particularly for grocery stores, and further increases in costs would likely
need to be passed along. Wage pressures remained moderate. Agriculture. Corn and soybean planting lagged the pace of last spring in the District, as
excess precipitation and cool temperatures slowed field work. Planting conditions were best in
Iowa and Illinois, where planted acres had caught up to five-year averages after a slow start.
The emergence of corn and soybean plants was behind normal, except in Iowa. The poor start to
the growing season reduces the yield potential of the District corn crop. Even so, there is still
the chance of a very large crop. Agricultural commodity markets were choppy during the

 VII-5
reporting period. After peaking earlier this year, corn, soybean, and wheat prices ended down.
Cattle and milk prices edged lower, while hog prices edged up.

 VIII-1 Eighth District - St. Louis
Summary The economy of the Eighth District has continued to expand at a moderate pace since
our previous report. Manufacturing activity has continued to increase since the previous report,
while activity in the services sector has declined. Retail sales increased in April and early May
over year-earlier levels. Similarly, auto sales increased over the same period. Residential real
estate activity has continued to decline, and commercial and industrial real estate market
conditions have been mixed. Overall lending at a sample of large District banks saw little
change during the first quarter of 2011 compared with the fourth quarter of 2010.
Consumer Spending Contacts reported that retail sales in April and early May were up, on average, over year-
earlier levels. About 48 percent of the retailers reported increases in sales, while 36 percent saw
decreases and 16 percent saw no changes. Roughly 41 percent of the retailers noted that sales
levels were below their expectations, 35 percent reported that sales met expectations, and 24
percent reported that sales were above expectations. About 32 percent of the retailers noted that
their inventories were too high, while 20 percent reported that their inventories were too low.
The sales outlook for June and July was mostly optimistic: About 60 percent of the retailers
expect sales to increase over 2010 levels, while 24 percent expect sales to decrease and 16
percent expect sales to be similar to last year. Car dealers in the District reported that sales in April and early May were up, on
average, compared with last year's sales. About 58 percent of the car dealers surveyed saw
increases in sales, while 29 percent saw decreases and 13 percent saw no changes. About 38
percent of the car dealers noted that used car sales had increased relative to new car sales, while

 VIII-2
21 percent reported the opposite. Also, about 29 percent of contacts reported an increase in sales
of low-end vehicles relative to high-end vehicles, while less than 4 percent reported the
opposite. About 57 percent of the car dealers surveyed reported that their inventories were
below desired levels, while 9 percent reported that their inventories were too high. The sales
outlook for June and July was generally optimistic: About 58 percent of the car dealers expect
sales to increase over 2010 levels.
Manufacturing and Other Business Activity Manufacturing activity has continued to increase since our previous report. Several
manufacturers reported plans to open plants and expand operations in the near future, while a
smaller number of contacts reported plans to close plants or reduce operations. Firms in the tire,
powder coating, food, paper, packaging, machinery, automobile, and ship manufacturing
industries reported plans to expand existing operations and hire new workers. In contrast, a firm
in paper manufacturing announced plans to close a plant and lay off employees. Additionally,
some automobile manufacturers have reduced their production because of a shortage of parts
sourced from Japan. Activity in the District’s services sector has declined since our previous report.
Numerous casinos in the District have been forced to temporarily close because of flooding on
the Mississippi River. Additionally, contacts in the telephone call center, health care, business
support, and support activities for transportation industries reported plans to decrease operations
in the District and lay off employees. In contrast, a contact in the nursing care industry
announced plans to expand operations and hire new workers.
Real Estate and Construction

 VIII-3 Home sales continued to decline throughout most of the Eighth District. Compared with
the same period in 2010, April 2011 year-to-date home sales were down 11 percent in
Louisville and Memphis and 19 percent in St. Louis and Little Rock. Residential construction
also continued to decrease throughout the District. April 2011 year-to-date single-family
housing permits decreased in the majority of the District metro areas compared with the same
period in 2010. Permits decreased 33 percent in Little Rock, 42 percent in St. Louis, and 25
percent in Memphis and Louisville. Commercial and industrial real estate market conditions were mixed. Compared with the
fourth quarter of 2010, first quarter 2011 suburban office vacancy rates increased in St. Louis,
decreased in Little Rock and Louisville, and remained constant in Memphis. The downtown
office vacancy rates increased in Louisville and St. Louis, decreased in Memphis, and stayed
the same in Little Rock. Industrial vacancy rates decreased for Louisville, Memphis, and
St. Louis but increased for Little Rock. Commercial and industrial construction activity
remained slow throughout most of the District. Contacts in Little Rock noted that commercial
construction has remained fairly weak. Contacts in St. Louis and northwest Arkansas also noted
weak commercial construction activity. In contrast, some contacts in southwestern Illinois and
Kentucky noted that overall construction has increased recently.
Banking and Finance A survey of senior loan officers at a sample of large District banks indicates little
variation in overall lending activity in the first quarter of 2011 relative to the fourth quarter of
2010. During this period, credit standards for commercial and industrial loans remained
unchanged, while demand for these loans ranged from unchanged to moderately stronger. Credit
standards for commercial real estate loans were unchanged, while demand ranged from

 VIII-4
unchanged to moderately weaker. Meanwhile, credit standards for consumer loans remained
unchanged, while demand ranged from about the same to moderately stronger. Credit standards
for residential mortgage loans ranged from unchanged to somewhat tighter, while demand
ranged from moderately weaker to moderately stronger.
Agriculture and Natural Resources Heavy rain and flooding on the Mississippi River during April and early May slowed
down field work and affected crop conditions in the District. The rates of completion for the
planting of corn, cotton, rice, sorghum, and soybeans were behind their 5-year average in most
District states; crop emergence was generally behind schedule as well. At least 67 percent of the
winter wheat crop was rated in fair or better condition across the District states. Similarly, 88
percent or more of pastures were rated in fair or better condition. Monthly coal production for
April 2011 was 2.6 percent lower compared with April 2010.

 IX-1 NINTH DISTRICT--MINNEAPOLIS Economic activity in the Ninth District grew steadily since the last report. Increased
activity was noted in consumer spending, tourism, services, commercial construction,
manufacturing, and energy and mining. Residential construction and real estate and agricultural
activity decreased, while commercial real estate activity was flat. The job market continued to
strengthen moderately since the last report, while wage increases continued to be modest.
Significant price increases were noted for wholesale items, but retail price increases were
moderate.
Consumer Spending and Tourism
Consumer spending grew moderately. A major Minneapolis-based retailer reported that same-store
sales in March and April increased 2 percent compared with a year earlier. Sales and traffic have
generally been higher than a year ago at a Montana mall, but were softer in mid-May. Sales and
traffic are about even with a year ago at a South Dakota mall, according to the manager; cool
weather seems to have slowed apparel sales. An auto dealers association in North Dakota forecasts
a 10 percent increase in vehicle sales for 2011. While spring tourism activity was soft in many areas due to cold and rainy weather,
tourism officials were optimistic for the summer season. Based on summer reservation levels,
the outlook for Minnesota tourism businesses was upbeat. Spring tourism activity was slow in
the Upper Peninsula of Michigan, but inquiries for summer travel options were up, according to
an official.
Construction and Real Estate
Commercial construction activity increased in April. The value of commercial building permits
in April increased from the same period a year earlier in both the Sioux Falls, S.D., and Fargo,

 IX-2
N.D., areas. A data center in the Minneapolis area plans an expansion due to strong demand.
Residential construction decreased from last year. The value of residential building permits in
April dropped 27 percent from the same period a year earlier in the Sioux Falls area; in
Minneapolis-St. Paul, the value of permits dropped significantly from a year ago. Commercial real estate markets were steady since the last report. According to industry
analysts in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area, office vacancy rates declined slightly, retail vacancy
was flat and industrial vacancy rates did not change much. Home sales during mid-May in
Minneapolis-St. Paul were down from last year’s tax-credit-driven sales, while new listings
increased. April home sales in Billings, Mont., also decreased from last year’s tax-credit-driven
sales, while the number of homes available for sale increased. Meanwhile, the number of homes
for sale in both Sioux Falls and Fargo was down from a year ago. The inventory of homes held
by lenders in Minneapolis also increased. Multifamily housing vacancy rates declined, and rents
increased over the past few months.
Services
Professional business services firms reported increased activity since the last report. Preliminary
results of a mid-year business outlook poll by the Minneapolis Fed found that professional
services respondents expect to increase sales and profits over the next year after gains during the
past 12 months. The survey also revealed that access to bank credit over the past three months
has improved, leading businesses to plan expansions and increase capital expenditures. An
environmental consulting firm noted a strong increase in orders from the public sector and slight
increases from the private sector. Information technology contacts noted an increase in activity
over the past two months.
Manufacturing

 IX-3
Manufacturing activity increased since the last report. A May survey of purchasing managers by
Creighton University (Omaha, Neb.) showed increases in manufacturing activity in Minnesota,
South Dakota and North Dakota. A Sioux Falls manufacturer of electronics and aerospace
products is expanding its operations. A bank director reported that manufacturers saw higher
productivity and increased their equipment purchases.
Energy and Mining
Activity in the energy and mining sectors increased since the last report. Late-May oil
exploration activity increased from early April, and two natural gas processing plants are
planned in North Dakota. Wind-energy development projects continued since the last report;
however, a $400 million wind-power project in North Dakota was canceled because of potential
threats to endangered birds. Iron ore mines in northern Minnesota are operating at full capacity.
A mining company is in the early stages of exploring a potential $1.5 billion taconite mine and
processing plant in northern Wisconsin. Metals prices remained strong, and Montana mines
were operating at near capacity. A potential gold/zinc mine in Michigan’s Upper Peninsula is
under consideration.
Agriculture
District agricultural producers were hampered by continued poor weather conditions. Wet fields
kept spring plantings of corn, wheat, soybeans and sugar beets well behind their five-year
averages in late-May. Prices for most District agricultural commodities increased since the last
report, including corn, wheat, cattle, hogs, eggs and soybeans. Poultry prices were flat, and
dairy prices decreased slightly. Of respondents to the Minneapolis Federal Reserve’s first
quarter (April) Agricultural Credit Conditions Survey, 83 percent reported increased farm

 IX-4
incomes in the previous three months; 57 percent thought incomes would increase in the next
three months.
Employment, Wages and Prices
The job market continued to strengthen moderately since the last report. According to the
preliminary results of the Minneapolis Fed’s mid-year outlook poll, 30 percent expect to
increase full-time employment at their firms over the next 12 months, while 22 percent will
decrease staff. Some district companies reported difficulty finding workers to fill information
technology jobs, certain health care occupations and skilled manufacturing positions. A North
Dakota agricultural producer noted a short supply of qualified agricultural implement
mechanics and technicians. An online retailer will add 200 jobs in North Dakota. In Minnesota,
a communications firm announced plans to hire 450 workers for a new call center, a health care
company will hire 100 more employees and a power generation firm will add 90 employees. In
contrast, a defense contractor said it will close an operation affecting 100 workers, a meat
producer will lay off 90 employees and a health care organization will lay off 70 workers. Wage increases continued to be modest. According to the preliminary results of the
Minneapolis Fed’s mid-year outlook poll, 66 percent expect wages to increase 2 percent or less.
Two placement agencies in Montana reported that while demand for employment services is up,
most wage increases have remained below 3 percent. However, some Minnesota small
businesses were facing increased wage pressures for professional and skilled labor, but not for
unskilled labor. Significant price increases were noted for wholesale items, but retail price increases were
moderate. Bank directors reported a number of input price increases, including petroleum-based
products, some metals, rubber, health insurance and food. Prices of large tires for mining and farm

 IX-5
machinery increased over 50 percent recently. Minnesota gasoline prices were down from recent
peaks, but were still over $1 per gallon more than a year earlier.

 X-1 TENTH DISTRICT - KANSAS CITY Growth in the Tenth District economy remained solid in May. Consumer spending grew
further, and transportation and high-tech firms reported generally strong activity. The energy
industry continued to expand at a robust pace, and agricultural activity was mostly positive with
generally favorable growing conditions and rising farmland values. Bankers reported mostly
steady loan demand, better loan quality, and rising deposits. Growth in manufacturing activity
slowed somewhat but remained modestly expansionary. Residential and commercial real estate
activity was generally stable but still slow. Business contacts were mostly optimistic about
future sales, and a number of firms reported increased capital spending and hiring plans. Prices
rose more slowly, but wage pressures were limited outside of select industries and occupations
with labor shortages. Consumer Spending. Consumer spending continued to grow solidly, and most contacts
expected further growth in the months ahead. Retail sales accelerated and nearly all retail
contacts reported that sales were above year-ago levels. Sales of apparel and seasonal garden
supplies were noted as particularly strong, while a few contacts characterized sales of appliance
and some high-end items as weak. Store inventories edged higher, but most stores were
satisfied with current stock levels. Auto sales continued to increase, but the pace slowed
somewhat from the previous survey. Auto inventories declined further, and several dealers
reported additional supply constraints due to the natural disaster in Japan. Restaurant sales were
strong, and travel and tourism activity remained favorable. Most restaurant and tourism
contacts expected solid activity heading forward.

 X-2 Manufacturing and Other Business Activity. Growth in District manufacturing
activity slowed following rapid growth in recent months, while other business activity expanded
further. Factory orders declined after surging earlier in the spring, but factory hiring continued
at solid rates and firms remained relatively optimistic about future sales. Growth in
transportation activity accelerated from the previous survey, and most firms reported optimism
about future sales. The majority of high-tech services firms reported strong growth in sales,
though the pace slowed a bit from the previous month. Capital spending plans improved for
transportation companies, and high-tech and manufacturing firms also reported fairly solid plans
for future expenditures. Real Estate and Construction. Residential and commercial real estate activity was
stable but still generally slow. The decline in housing starts leveled off in May, and new home
construction activity was similar to year-ago levels. Expectations for future homebuilding
improved from the previous survey, and materials were generally available. Residential
construction supply firms reported an uptick in sales, partly driven by demand for storm related
items such as roofing and decking materials. Home sales were higher than the previous month
but lower than a year ago. Expectations for future home sales were modestly positive, but home
inventories climbed higher and home prices continued to edge down in most areas. Mortgage
lending activity improved from the previous survey but was well below year-ago levels,
particularly for refinancing activity. Commercial real estate activity was mostly flat, though it
was slightly stronger than a year ago and contacts had a more positive outlook for future
months. Vacancy and absorption rates were steady but expected to improve. Office prices and
rents declined and were below year-ago levels in most cities. One contact noted continued
obstacles in financing, and another firm said projects have decreased in overall size.

 X-3 Banking. Bankers reported generally stable loan demand, increased deposits, and
improvements in loan quality. Overall loan demand was stable to slightly lower in some cases.
Demand for commercial and residential real estate loans was generally unchanged, while
demand for commercial and industrial loans and consumer installment loans decreased. Credit
standards largely remained unchanged in all major loan categories. Deposits increased for the
third straight survey. Bankers reported improvements in loan quality compared to a year ago,
and the outlook for loan quality was more favorable. The majority of bankers expected bank
employment to remain unchanged over the next year, citing low expected growth, cost
constraints, and uncertainty about regulations and government policies as the major reasons
restraining hiring plans. Energy. Energy activity continued to expand strongly in May. Nearly all contacts
reported an increase in drilling activity and were optimistic about the months ahead. Crude oil
prices remained elevated and favorable for drilling, and natural gas activity rebounded
somewhat with a recent uptick in prices. Contacts reported that shortages of equipment and
labor continued to somewhat restrain the rate of increase in drilling activity. Several companies
have expanded their capital expenditure plans, mainly for projects directed towards drilling and
exploration. Agriculture. Rising farm income spurred record high farmland values and cash rental
rates. Crop prices rose further with higher export demand, especially from China. Record pork
exports bolstered hog prices, but increased cow slaughter and weaker than usual demand for
grilling cuts dampened cattle prices. Many producers used cash rather than debt to pay for
higher input costs, and farm equipment sales remained robust. Agricultural growing conditions
varied in May. Recent heavy rains held up the start of the winter wheat harvest with early

 X-4
reports of below-average yields in drought-stricken areas. Despite planting delays due to wet
fields, the corn and soybean crops were progressing normally. Wages and Prices. Price levels generally rose at a slower rate in May, and wage
pressures were mostly contained despite solid hiring plans. Manufacturing price increases
remained common, but with some slowdown in materials price increases and with fewer firms
planning to raise selling prices. Construction supply firms also reported a moderation in selling
price increases, but builder input prices were considerably higher than the previous survey.
Retail prices increased further and were expected to continue rising in future months.
Transportation firms reported an increase in input prices, and restaurants said menu prices were
well above year-ago levels. Wage pressures were still contained in most industries. However,
some firms reported difficulties finding skilled workers and were forced to raise wages,
particularly in information technology fields. Hiring plans have improved for most firms,
particularly those in the energy, information technology, health-care, and manufacturing sectors.

 XI-1 ELEVENTH DISTRICT—DALLAS The Eleventh District economy expanded at an accelerated pace over the past six weeks.
In particular, energy sector respondents noted increased activity. Sectors that had previously
reported weak demand, including accounting, legal and financial services—as well as the
construction sector—noted improvement since the last report. Price pressures remain elevated,
and more firms expect to add to payrolls in coming months. Prices Price pressures remain elevated, according to most responding firms in the
Eleventh District. Many manufacturers said they had raised prices since the last report, but not
enough to offset raw material cost increases, leaving margins squeezed. Several responding
firms said price increases were becoming necessary to cover previous upticks in fuel, freight
and or raw materials prices. Most construction-related manufacturing firms either planned or
had implemented selling price increases; and construction firms expected cost increases to stick,
noting producers of construction-related products could no longer absorb higher energy and
freight costs. Several service sector companies reported increased ability to raise prices during
the past six weeks. Most said the increases were necessary to cover previous increases in fuel,
freight and/or raw materials prices. Higher demand for accounting-advisory services has
resulted in price increases. Agricultural contacts said crop prices had fallen slightly but remain
at relatively high levels. Retailers said prices increased modestly over the past six weeks, and
most expected their selling prices to remain elevated due to increases in input prices and
transportation costs. The price of crude oil stayed over $105 per barrel for much of April before falling back
under $100 in mid-May. Gasoline prices remained elevated during the reporting period due to

 XI-2
concerns about refinery flooding along the Mississippi, according to contacts. Natural gas prices
remained low, in a range between $4.15 to $4.30 per Mcf. Since the last report, prices increased
at a strong pace for many important petrochemical products. Labor Market Employment levels rose or held steady at most responding firms. There
were increased reports of hiring activity compared with the previous reporting period. Most
staffing firms noted strong demand at stable levels. Contacts in financial services, auto sales,
construction and related materials, and transportation manufacturing reported hiring increases.
Some high-tech manufacturers noted an increase in employment for skilled workers. Wage
pressures were slightly higher, with increases reported by some accounting and finance firms.
Moreover, high-tech respondents noted compensation was increasing due to the return of
bonuses that had been temporarily halted during the recession. Manufacturing Most construction-related manufacturers noted a pick-up in demand
since the last report. Some of the uptick was seasonal and expected, but several contacts said
that it was difficult to separate out seasonal demand from improved business conditions. Public
projects still account for a large share of orders, but contacts said demand had increased because
of an acceleration in private projects such as apartment and commercial buildings. The one
exception was the lumber industry, where responses mostly reflected weaker conditions over
the past six weeks. Respondents in high-tech manufacturing said sales and orders remain strong overall, but
demand was mixed. One source of weakening demand was the ripple effects of the natural
disaster in northern Japan as shortages of parts fed into slowdowns in demand for
complementary parts. Several respondents noted a broad pickup in consumer demand from
India and China and, within the US, an increase in demand for products such as 3-D televisions,

 XI-3
tablets and smart phones. Contacts also reported an increase in orders for semiconductors due to
a pickup in demand from the industrial, medical and auto sectors. Reports from most paper manufacturers reflected stable to improved orders stemming
from broad-based economic strengthening. Transportation manufacturing firms said orders were
strong and several said demand had risen slightly since the last report. Respondents in the food
industry said sales continued to increase at a steady pace over the past six weeks and outlooks
remained positive. Petrochemical firms said supplies were very tight, in part due to restricted capacity
caused by unplanned domestic plant outages, as well as reduced production in or near the
Japanese earthquake zone. Demand remains strong for most products, and prices are rising.
High profits and strong margins for ethylene producers have led to announcements of several
new plants and expansions in the Gulf Coast and elsewhere. Refiners reported extremely strong
profit margins, and said domestic gasoline inventories were near the bottom of the normal
range. Retail Sales Retail activity increased moderately over the reporting period. Looking at
March and April and smoothing out fluctuations due to the Easter holiday, demand has
increased in the low- to mid-single digits over the prior year. Some contacts mentioned gasoline
prices as a concern but the effects of elevated prices have been limited thus far. Texas continues
to perform above the national average, according to one large retailer, and the outlook for 2011
remains positive. Automobile sales continue to improve, but inventories will likely be thin in coming
months due to the effects of the tsunami on Japanese manufacturers supply chains. Contacts
expect demand to continue improving at a modest pace throughout 2011.

 XI-4 Non-financial Services Staffing firms reported growth in orders has leveled off or
slowed slightly since the last report, although demand remains strong, particularly from the
energy, healthcare, insurance and banking sectors. Outlooks are positive, and contacts expect
demand to remain stable through year-end. Demand for accounting services increased since the
last report, as is typical for this time of year. Improved demand has helped firms raise fees for
advisory services. Legal firms noted mostly steady demand, with some strength in corporate,
intellectual property litigation, and real estate services. Reports from transportation services contacts were mostly positive. Intermodal
transportation firms noted an increase in cargo volumes during the reporting period. Railroad
shipments rose moderately, with particularly strong volume growth in grains, metals, petroleum
and chemical products. Container trade volumes declined but were up from year-ago levels.
Growth in small parcel shipments accelerated during the reporting period buoyed by demand
from the wholesale trade and retail sectors. Airline traffic held steady over the past six weeks.
Demand for travel within the US and to Latin America was solid, but load factors for
international flights to and from the Pacific region remained weak. Contacts expect modest
improvement in airline demand and revenue this year. Financial Services Financial firms reported steady overall loan demand. Large banks
with a national footprint reported some pickup in commercial and industrial loan demand with
increased corporate activity, and commercial real estate (CRE) activity has shown recent
improvement as well. Regional banks noted that loan demand remains pretty flat, although
optimism persists for pockets of homebuilding and some CRE lending across the state. Demand
for auto and consumer loans declined. Contacts continue to note that loan pricing remains

 XI-5
aggressive amidst a highly competitive lending landscape. Outlooks are generally positive in
light of better outstanding loan quality and continued slow improvement in lending conditions. Construction and Real Estate Eleventh District housing contacts said sales remain at
low levels, but optimism has increased along with better traffic. Sales are expected to improve
in the second half of 2011. As reported in previous reports, sales in the higher price points
continue to improve. Apartment demand continues to accelerate, and rents have edged up since
the last report. Private nonresidential demand has improved. Leasing activity is growing and there are
reports that industrial and office construction are increasing from very low levels. Sales of
commercial buildings are also picking up across the District. Energy Drilling activity is very strong and growing, according to responding firms in
the energy industry. A majority of wells being drilled in the United States are directed to oil for
the first time since May 1995. Contacts noted Texas is leading the expansion of domestic
activity, with strong activity in the Permian basin and Eagle Ford Shale. While the majority of
activity is land-based, work is being re-permitted in the Gulf of Mexico, and service firms noted
they are moving workers back into the Gulf area. Respondents also noted that international
work continues to grow. Agriculture The entire Eleventh District is experiencing drought conditions, and the
severity has progressed considerably. About half of the district is now in exceptional drought,
the most severe drought classification, up from zero percent at the last report. The outlook for
the wheat crop is poor and it is likely that the cotton harvest will be down from last year.
Numerous wildfires have led to an estimated $20.4 million in agricultural losses.

 XII-1 TWELFTH DISTRICT–SAN FRANCISCO
Summary Twelfth District economic activity continued to expand at a moderate pace during the
reporting period of late April through the end of May. Price increases for final goods and
services remained limited, and upward pressures on wages were subdued on balance. Sales of
retail items rose further, while demand for business and consumer services was mixed. District
manufacturing activity also was mixed but appeared to expand overall. Agricultural producers
reported strong sales, and extraction activity rose for providers of natural resources used for
energy production. Activity in District housing markets remained lackluster, while demand for
commercial real estate showed signs of improvement. Contacts from financial institutions
reported further increases in loan demand.
Wages and Prices Price inflation was limited for most final goods and services during the reporting period,
with the notable exceptions of food and gasoline. Although the prices of a wide range of
commodities and raw materials remained elevated, the pass-through to final prices has been
limited. For most retail goods and services, tepid demand and robust competition continued to
hold down final prices. Upward wage pressures were quite modest in general. Although hiring activity has
picked up, high unemployment and ample labor availability continued to limit the pace of
overall compensation gains throughout the District. The primary exception continued to be
workers with specialized technical skills, particularly engineers and specialists in information
technology, for whom wage gains remained significant in several parts of the District.
Retail Trade and Services

 XII-2 Retail sales rose further on balance. Although consumers’ focus on necessities
continued, the reports noted a slight shift back toward discretionary spending. Modest
improvements in sales were reported for discount chains as well as for traditional department
stores, and inventories generally were at or near desired levels given the pace of sales, enabling
many retailers to reduce their reliance on promotional activities. For retailers of big-ticket items
such as major appliances and furniture, however, sales remained somewhat weak. Similarly,
sales were largely flat for grocers. Demand for new automobiles continued to strengthen,
although sales growth was restrained somewhat by high fuel prices and shortages of new
Japanese-made vehicles associated with the recent natural disaster in that country. The
availability of used vehicles tightened further, primarily for imported models, which has
propped up their sale prices and trade-in values. Demand for business and consumer services was mixed. Providers of professional
services such as legal and accounting reported little change in activity since the prior reporting
period. Sales growth remained strong in the Internet and digital media sectors, and demand for
electricity by businesses and households expanded further. Activity waned somewhat for
providers of transportation services, with contacts noting a slowdown in cargo traffic at
Southern California seaports. Health-care providers noted further moderation in the demand for
their services. Travel activity continued to improve in much of the District, reflecting growth in
business travel as well as tourism.
Manufacturing District manufacturing activity posted further net gains during the reporting period of
late April through the end of May. Manufacturers of semiconductors and other technology
products reported continued growth in new orders and sales as well as high levels of capacity

 XII-3
utilization, with few supply constraints arising from the crisis in Japan. Activity fell slightly for
metal fabricators, as demand growth eased in the wake of strong gains in preceding months.
Production rates remained solid for makers of commercial aircraft and parts, with modest
growth in new orders adding to an existing order backlog. Capacity utilization rates dropped a
bit for petroleum refiners, as domestic demand for gasoline stalled in response to elevated
prices. Reports from food and beverage manufacturers indicated that demand for their products
was largely stable or up somewhat.
Agriculture and Resource-related Industries Sales of agricultural products were robust, and extraction activity of natural resources
used for energy production expanded further. Orders and sales continued to grow for a wide
variety of crop and livestock products. However, contacts noted some supply constraints: input
costs have risen overall, and unseasonably cold weather delayed the development of some crops
in California and the Pacific Northwest. Demand for natural gas continued to expand, propelled
in part by cold spring weather, and oil extraction activity grew further in response to rising
overseas demand.
Real Estate and Construction Demand in District residential real estate markets was largely unchanged at very low
levels, while conditions improved slightly in commercial real estate markets. The pace of sales
for new and existing homes in the District continued to be very weak on net, with distressed
properties and entry-level homes reportedly dominating the sales mix in some areas. As a
result, new home construction remained moribund and home prices were stable to down. By
contrast, conditions continued to be stronger in apartment markets, particularly in the Seattle
area: rental rates there reportedly are growing at an annual rate of 10 to 15 percent, spurring

 XII-4
significant increases in construction activity. Vacancy rates for office and industrial space
stayed elevated throughout the District, but further improvements in demand were noted for
several major markets. This was particularly the case in the San Francisco Bay Area and
Seattle, with revived developer interest in new construction reported for the latter area.
Financial Institutions Reports from District banking contacts indicated that loan demand and overall credit
quality rose modestly since the last reporting period. Businesses in some areas have exhibited a
slight increase in their willingness to engage in expansionary capital spending, which caused
demand for commercial and industrial loans to rise. Demand for consumer credit remained
largely stable. Despite improvements in overall credit quality, lending standards remained
relatively restrictive for many types of consumer and business loans. However, contacts
reported that competition among lenders to extend credit to well-qualified small and medium-
sized businesses has continued to intensify, placing downward pressure on rates and fees.
Contacts also pointed to continued growth in venture capital financing activity, driven primarily
by investments in the Internet and digital media sectors.

