 For use at 2:00 p.m., E.S.T. Wednesday January 16, 2002
Summary of Commentary on Current Economic Conditions by Federal Reserve District January 2002

SUMMARY OF COMMENTARY ON CURRENT ECONOMIC CONDITIONS BY FEDERAL RESERVE DISTRICTS JANUARY 2002

 TABLE OF CONTENTS
SUMMARY ................... ..................................................... .i
First District - Boston ................... . . ......... ........... I-1
Second District - New York .............. ..................... ................. II-1
Third District - Philadelphia ................... ................................... III-1
Fourth District - Cleveland ........................................................ IV-1
Fifth District - Richmond ......................... ...... ............ V-1
Sixth District - Atlanta .................................................... VI-1
Seventh District - Chicago ................. ..................... ................ VII-1
Eighth District - St. Louis ....................................................... VIII-1
Ninth District - Minneapolis ................................................. IX-1
Tenth District - Kansas City ................... .................. ................ X-1
Eleventh District - Dallas .................................. ............... ... XI-1
Twelfth District - San Francisco ................................................ XII-1

 i SUMMARY¹ Reports from the Federal Reserve Districts suggest that economic activity generally
remained weak from late November through early January. But while there are still indications
of caution, there are also scattered reports of improvement. The Dallas and San Francisco
Districts report a continued decline in activity, while the Cleveland District indicates that the
regional economy appears to be in the process of bottoming out. Economic activity remained
slow or weak in the Boston, Chicago, Philadelphia, Kansas City and St. Louis Districts.
Activity was mixed according to the Atlanta, Minneapolis and Richmond Districts and showed
further signs of rebounding in the New York District. Many Districts indicate that their contacts believe a recovery will begin by mid-year or
earlier, but the timing and strength are uncertain. Several Districts say that uncertainty has led
some businesses to budget conservatively for the first quarter. Manufacturing activity was weak or down in most reports, but showed signs of
stabilizing or rebounding in several Districts. Retail sales picked up in late December and
early January but for the period overall posted generally weak results in most Districts. Auto
sales slowed in December-after very strong sales in October and November-but sales
remained relatively strong. Construction and real estate activity continued to soften in most
Districts. Commercial real estate markets continued to weaken, and while housing markets
held up overall, there was further weakness concentrated in the markets for higher-priced
homes. Reports on the service sector were mixed but in general suggest sluggish economic ¹ Prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas and based on information collected before
January 9, 2002. This document summarizes comments received from business and other contacts
outside the Federal Reserve and is not a commentary on the views of Federal Reserve officials.

 ii
activity. Financial institutions reported a slight softening of conditions in late November and
December. Drilling activity continued to contract rapidly in response to lower energy prices,
and the airline industry continued to suffer from weak demand and soaring security costs. Labor markets remained soft. There are numerous reports of shrinking wage and
benefit packages. The Cleveland District notes that employers are invoking "economic duress"
clauses to renegotiate union contracts. Most Districts report declining prices for goods and
services with the notable exception of sharply rising prices for security, health care, and all
types of insurance. Consumer Spending. Retail sales showed signs of improvement in late December and
early January but results were generally weak overall in most Districts. Sales were flat or
down compared to last year in the Boston, Richmond and St. Louis Districts. Sales were
"mediocre" in Atlanta, "weak" in Dallas, "soft" in Chicago, "slow" in St. Louis and
"lackluster" in San Francisco. Sales were up, however, and better than expected in the
Cleveland, Kansas City, New York and Philadelphia Districts. According to most Districts, there were aggressive promotions and unusually large
discounting that reduced profit margins for retailers. The flurry of sales activity in late
December and early January left inventories in good shape. Sales were strongest for home
furnishings and electronics according to District reports. Sales of menswear were weak, and
warm weather discouraged purchases of winter apparel and seasonal sporting goods. Discount
stores continued to report stronger sales than apparel or high-end retailers. The Dallas, Boston
and Philadelphia Districts note that retailers have reduced purchases for the first half of 2002
in anticipation of weak sales.

 iii Auto sales were slower in December after very strong sales in October and November.
Several districts report that sales had remained relatively strong, however, and a few Districts
note that December sales were above year-ago levels. The Cleveland, Dallas and Kansas City
Districts say their contacts expect first-quarter sales to weaken. The Atlanta, Kansas City and
Minneapolis Districts note that inventories of used cars are high due to the large number of
trade-ins that occurred in October and November. As a result, used car prices have fallen. Manufacturing. Manufacturing activity was weak or down in nearly all Districts.
Demand is lower for machine tools, metals, textiles, telecommunications and most aircraft
equipment. But there are some signs of stabilization or recovery in many reports. For
example, the Cleveland District says that the number of manufacturers reporting increases in
new orders rose from November to December. In the Atlanta District, several firms noted a
modest pickup in new orders and were rehiring some of their recently laid-off staff. Auto production was mixed but showed indications of picking up. In the Atlanta and
Cleveland Districts, some plants worked overtime hours to meet booming demand for their
models, while others were forced to close for two weeks because of slumping sales of the
models produced at those plants. The Chicago District reports that manufacturers said
nationwide light vehicle sales exceeded their expectations again in December despite softening
from November. Inventories remained very lean, according to the Chicago District, where one
manufacturer indicated that its light vehicle production in the first quarter of 2002 would be 6
percent to 7 percent higher than a year earlier. Demand for some high-tech products has
improved since the last survey, according to the Dallas and San Francisco Districts. The
Boston and Atlanta Districts report an increase in demand for medical and security-related
products, while the Chicago District reports a late-December pickup in steel production.

 iv The reports also suggest more optimism among the country's manufacturers, with
many predicting a pickup towards the end of the first half of 2002. A higher percentage of
plant managers in the Kansas City District expect increases in production than in earlier
surveys. Manufacturers in the Philadelphia District indicate that they have slightly raised
capital spending plans for the first half of the year in anticipation of an upturn by the middle of
the year. Most contacts in the Cleveland District also expect conditions to improve late in the
second quarter or early in the third quarter. Richmond manufacturers anticipate that
shipments, new orders and capital expenditures will increase substantially by mid-year. In
contrast, most manufacturers of heavy equipment in the Chicago District cut their forecasts for
2002. And, the Boston District reports that capital spending will be tight or reduced
significantly according to a majority of their respondents. Services. Reports on the service sector were mixed but in general suggest weak
economic activity. The Cleveland and Dallas Districts report slow demand for temporary
workers. Temporary employment agencies in the Richmond District, however, report
somewhat stronger demand for most categories of workers. Transportation and tourism activity was reported to be rebounding in December, but
demand remains well below year-ago levels according to the Atlanta, Dallas, Minneapolis,
New York, St. Louis and San Francisco Districts. Hotel occupancy rates picked up but are
still below a year ago. Business travel remains down, according to the Dallas and
San Francisco Districts. But, price cuts stimulated a pickup in leisure travel over the holidays
and flights were fuller, according to the Chicago District. The Dallas District notes that the
airline industry has significantly reduced capacity over the past two months. With 15 percent
fewer aircraft in service compared to a year ago, industry capacity is now at roughly 1997-98

 v
levels. Weak demand has pushed revenues down 15 to 20 percent below last year's levels.
Depressed revenues along with soaring security costs have significantly hurt earnings. Construction and Real Estate. Housing markets continued to hold up in most
Districts, although there were pockets of weakness, particularly for higher-priced homes.
Commercial markets were softer, with the Atlanta, Chicago, Kansas City, New York and
Richmond Districts reporting higher office vacancy rates. The Atlanta and New York Districts
report an abundance of sublease space, while office rents were lower in the Richmond District.
The Chicago and Kansas City Districts say that landlords are offering more generous tenant
improvement packages that may be masking the full extent of rent declines in the commercial
market. In contrast with other reports, the Cleveland District reported "uncharacteristically
strong" building activity. Banking and Finance. Financial institutions indicated a slight weakening of conditions
in late November and December. Soft or declining loan demand is reported in the Chicago,
Cleveland, Kansas City, New York, Richmond, St. Louis and San Francisco Districts.
Competition for quality borrowers remained intense, according to the Cleveland and
San Francisco Districts. Demand for commercial loans remained weak. Consumer lending has
held up in this recession, but it began to soften at the end of December as higher mortgage
rates choked off the surge in refinancing activity. Only the Philadelphia District reports rising
loan volumes. The Cleveland and San Francisco Districts indicate some deterioration in asset
quality, and the Atlanta and Cleveland Districts note some increase in delinquency rates.
Tightening credit standards are reported in the Chicago, New York, Philadelphia and St. Louis
Districts. Agriculture and Natural Resources. The Kansas City, Minneapolis and St Louis

 vi
Districts note concern about the absence of a protective snow cover for the winter wheat crop.
The crop may already have been damaged, according to the Kansas City and St. Louis
Districts. Dry weather in the Kansas City District has limited pasture growth, causing most
ranchers to be reluctant to expand their cattle herds. Rain and snow helped replenish depleted
soil moisture levels and improved the condition of small grain crops in the Richmond District. Bankers in the Richmond District said low crop prices continue to leave some farmers
financially vulnerable. Livestock producers have benefited from lower feed costs and lower
prices for nitrogen fertilizer, however. The St. Louis District notes that the price of natural
gas-a major cost component in the production of nitrogen-based fertilizer-fell by
approximately 75 percent compared with last year. Government payments to crop producers
and strong livestock profits in the first half of 2001 will provide some offset for weakness in
farm loan portfolios, according to bankers in the Kansas City District. Drilling activity continued to decline rapidly in response to lower energy prices,
according to the Atlanta, Dallas, Kansas City and San Francisco Districts. The U.S. rig count
fell from over 1000 working rigs in early November to 887 at year-end. Capital spending in
2002 is expected to be down by more than 20 percent according to the Dallas District. The San Francisco District reports that interest in siting and building electrical power
plants has slowed, with some developers backing off their "fast track" approach and taking a
more wait-and-see attitude. An iron-ore mine in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan and a mine
in Northern Minnesota both extended a shutdown, according to the Minneapolis District, while
another mine in Northern Minnesota ended an eight-week shutdown but is operating at reduced
production levels. Several Kansas City District firms report expansion of coal-bed methane
exploration activity.

 vii Labor Markets. Labor markets remain soft, according to most District reports.
Further layoffs are expected in the Boston District, but the Chicago and New York Districts
say labor markets are stabilizing. While there were reports of shrinking pay increases in the Chicago District, some firms
are freezing pay scales in the Boston District, and downward wage pressures are reported in
the Cleveland, Kansas City and San Francisco Districts. These Districts report the elimination
of hiring bonuses, decreases in moving allowances and reduced merit increases. Employees
are also being asked to pay a larger share of health care and other benefit costs than in past
years and to accept more limited health plan options. The Cleveland District says union
contracts were being renegotiated due to adverse economic conditions. Employers in the steel
and aerospace industries have invoked "economic duress" clauses that exempt them from
certain job-security provisions. Some of these renegotiations have involved wage concessions
or agreements to postpone (with "give-back" provisions) scheduled wage increases. Prices. Districts report declining prices for most goods and services with the notable
exception of security, health care and medical, property and liability insurance. The Atlanta,
Boston, Dallas, Minneapolis and New York Districts report steep increases in insurance costs. Energy costs are lower and, as the Cleveland District notes, firms have reduced or
eliminated energy surcharges. According to the Dallas District, warm weather and flagging
demand led to declines in natural gas, crude oil and refined product prices. Forecasts of colder
weather and collaboration between OPEC and non-OPEC producers to restrict crude oil
production led prices to bounce back to just below mid-November levels. Inventories of most
energy products, however, are significantly higher than a year ago.

 I-1 FIRST DISTRICT - BOSTON The First District economy remains slow but some brighter spots are visible. While revenues or
orders are generally down from year-earlier, manufacturers note some signs of stabilization. And some
firms, notably those making medical or security-related products, are seeing demand rise. Most retailers
report a disappointing holiday sales season, although auto dealers and stores selling home-related
products ended the year with sales gains. Residential real estate contacts concur that housing markets in
the region are holding up well. While the consensus centers on a weak recovery beginning by mid-year,
most contacts are very uncertain about its timing and strength and many are budgeting conservatively for
a longer downturn.
Retail Most contacted retailers report that sales during the October through December period were flat
to declining compared with a year earlier. Respondents indicate that these results were somewhat worse
than expected. Discount retailers, tourism agencies, and sellers of home and office furniture, computer
and office technology products, office supplies, and art and architectural supplies report sluggish demand.
Automobile sales are said to be up substantially, because of zero percent financing promotions. In
addition, sectors related to the housing market (building materials and hardware) cite modest to strong
growth in sales. Employment levels and wage rates are mostly said to be holding steady. However, the tourism
sector is still reducing employment. Selling prices are being discounted to boost sales, and most contacts
report either steady or declining profit margins. Capital expansion plans of most retailers have been put
on hold. The mood in the First District retail sector is downbeat; most retailers expect a weak turnaround
starting in the third or fourth quarter of 2002. Contacts in tourism and discount retail are even more
pessimistic: they expect bad times to last through all of 2002.
Manufacturing and Related Services Most First District manufacturing contacts report that fourth quarter revenues or orders were

 I-2
down from a year ago. Sellers of machine tools, semiconductor equipment, and most aircraft equipment
said that business remained depressed. By exception, demand increased relative to a year earlier for
biotech products and medical devices, as well as for equipment related to national defense, air safety, and
emergency back-up systems. Despite the prevalence of year-over-year declines, manufacturers indicate that demand for
consumer goods improved late in the fourth quarter. For example, several contacts report a recent pickup
in orders for home appliances and furnishings, and a maker of automotive parts said that the fourth
quarter did not turn out to be as bad as management had feared. Some of these firms attribute the
improvement to temporary promotional activity. Most makers of capital goods and other business products also see signs that business is
stabilizing. However, they expect sales to remain weak in the first half of 2002 and to show only modest
recovery in the second half. Contacts report that selling prices and materials costs are flat or down. Sellers of machinery,
equipment, information systems, and paper indicate that prices are falling because of competition and
requests for discounts (especially on the part of customers in the airline, computer hardware, and financial
services industries). Some respondents report that their aggressive supply management efforts have
contributed to holding down costs. The only significant cost increases are for insurance, both health and
property and casualty. Manufacturers are budgeting conservatively for 2002. About one-half expect to implement
further layoffs or furloughs, and an equal number are freezing pay for all or part of their workforces. The
majority of respondents report that capital spending will be tight or reduced significantly. Several
publicly held companies indicate that these actions are responses to external pressures to conserve cash.
Residential Real Estate Residential real estate markets in New England continue to be active, although contacts note
slowdowns in some areas. Massachusetts, New Hampshire, and Vermont respondents report that activity

 I-3
levels are lower than a year ago and houses stay on the market longer. However, Maine and Rhode Island
contacts say they have not experienced a slowdown to date. Although inventory has increased throughout
the region during the past few months, the buildup has been minimal and many areas continue to report an
insufficient stock of houses on the market. Supply is now considered more closely aligned with demand,
but not excessive. As the pace of activity has moderated, prices either have remained flat or have shown
single-digit increases. Most contacts expect the first quarter to be slower than usual, but sales are
expected to pick up again in the second quarter.
Insurance Almost all contacts report strong sales and pricing at the end of 2001. Life insurance sales were
strong in the fourth quarter and made up for some of the lost sales following September 11. Specifically,
sales of term life insurance have risen in the last few months and application requests for traditional life
have also increased. Disability insurance contacts report improving sales but also increases in the number
of submitted and paid claims (signs of a weak economy). Property and casualty insurance providers had
the most upbeat reports. Rates have increased by 15 to 20 percent from "severely underpriced" levels last
year and are expected to continue to rise as more annual contracts are renewed. The one negative report
came from a health insurance contact that announced major restructuring for 2002. The company's health
plan membership is expected to fall sharply, in part because it is raising its membership premiums
dramatically to match rising costs and pulling out of some unprofitable market segments where it cannot
compete with local providers. With the exception of the health insurance contact, insurance companies expect to hold capital
spending and employment levels mostly flat in 2002. A couple of contacts mention a new focus on
cutting costs by more fully utilizing technology already put in place. Generally, insurance respondents
view 2002 with "guarded optimism." Most expect the economy to begin to improve at mid-year.

 II-1 SECOND DISTRICT--NEW YORK Economic activity in the Second District has shown further signs of rebounding since the last
report. Aside from steep increases in business insurance costs, price pressures remain subdued. Labor
markets have recently shown signs of stabilizing. Retailers report that holiday-season sales-though, on
average, little changed from a year earlier-were generally above plan, and appeared to be gaining
momentum in late December and early January. Virtually all contacts describe inventories as lean. Most
of the retailers surveyed report steep price discounting, and about half indicate that they hired fewer
holiday workers than a year earlier. Housing markets in most of the District have strengthened further since the last report, though
Manhattan's rental market remains slack. Manhattan's office market appears to have stabilized in
November and December, while suburban markets have softened further. Hotel occupancy rates
continued to recover in November, but room rates were down 23 percent from a year earlier. Purchasing
managers report sharp improvement in business conditions in the New York City area, but further
weakness in the Buffalo area. Finally, bankers report stronger demand for home mortgages, ongoing
tightening in credit standards, and little change in delinquency rates.
Consumer Spending Retailers generally report that sales were above plan in December, although heavy discounting
reduced profit margins. Compared with a year earlier, changes in same-store sales volume varied
substantially: reports from general merchandise chains ranged from a 4 percent decline to a 6 percent rise,
while discount chains and home-improvement retailers reported increases of 5-10 percent. All retail
chains surveyed reported lean inventories at the start of the new year. Most contacts report that sales strengthened substantially toward the end of the month, and
remained strong in early January. Business at Manhattan stores improved noticeably in December but
remained somewhat weaker than in the rest of the region. More generally, aggressive promotion and
discounting were widely reported, though one major chain described the 2001 holiday season as
somewhat less promotional than the prior year's. Similarly, based on a trade association's annual survey

 II-2
of small retailers across New York State, holiday sales were virtually unchanged from a year ago, while
discounting was more pronounced than in 2000. In general, retailers note that the strongest sales categories involved goods for the home-bed &
bath, furniture, appliances, home improvement, appliances, and electronics. Most contacts also note
fairly strong sales of women's apparel. In contrast, sales of men's clothing and luggage remained
particularly sluggish. About half of the retail chains contacted report a decline in holiday staffing, compared with 2000,
while the rest indicate no change. Retailers report lower employee turnover and little or no wage pressure
but continue to note sharp increases in health, property and other business insurance costs.
Construction and Real Estate Commercial real estate markets in and around New York City generally remained slack at the end
of 2001. Office vacancy rates in most of New York City's suburbs continued to rise in the fourth quarter.
In Manhattan, however, there were some signs of stabilization-office availability rates leveled off in
November and December in both Midtown and Lower Manhattan, though they were sharply higher than
at the end of 2000. Asking rents have fallen roughly 10 percent over the past 12 months, and declines in
actual contract rents have reportedly been more pronounced still. A local industry expert reports that
Manhattan firms put a massive amount of extra space on the sublet market after September 11, and that
almost all unused space is now on the market. A leading New York City housing appraisal firm reports that co-op and condo sales activity
recovered steadily in November and December but remained well below levels of a year earlier.
Manhattan apartment prices are estimated to be down about 5-10 percent, on average, over the past 12
months, though there are still some reports of lower-priced units selling at above the asking price. The
rental market has weakened more sharply, with rents reported to be down as much as 20 percent. The single-family housing market has held up particularly well. Homebuilders in northern New
Jersey indicate that a supply shortage is, once again, buoying home prices. Similarly, New Jersey's
existing home market has reportedly snapped back, led by the moderately-priced segment. In New York

 II-3
State, the market for existing homes remained strong in November: unit sales were roughly on par with a
year earlier while prices were up nearly 6 percent, on average. Moderate price declines were recorded in
the Rochester area and Westchester County, but New York City, Long Island and most of the Hudson
Valley registered double-digit gains.
Other Business Activity Unemployment insurance claims in New York City appear to have retreated to roughly preattack
levels, after correcting for seasonal movements, by December. More recently, a major NYC employment
agency reports that hiring seems to have picked up in early January, led by demand from smaller clients. Manhattan hotels report that occupancy rates continued to recover in November and were down
only 10 points from a year earlier. Hotels room rates edged up in November but were still 23 percent
lower, on average, than a year earlier. While tourism from overseas is still described as weak, there has
reportedly been a noticeable rebound in domestic visitors. Surveys of purchasing managers across the District paint a mixed picture. Purchasers in the New
York City area report a sharp snapback in business conditions in December, following widespread
weakness in October and November. However, in a survey taken prior to the late-month snowstorm,
Buffalo-area purchasing managers indicate a marked weakening in business conditions in December-
widespread declines were reported in employment, new orders and especially production activity. Most Buffalo-area businesses queried in early January report that the snowstorm caused partial or
complete shut-downs on December 27 and 28; disruptions were widespread but generally short-lived.
More generally, manufacturers across New York State report some pickup in general business conditions
and new orders in late December and early January and express continued optimism about the near-term
outlook.
Financial Developments Bankers at small to medium-sized Second District banks reported mixed demand for loans over
the past two months. Demand for residential mortgages increased, on balance, while demand for
consumer loans registered a typical seasonal decrease; widespread increases in refinancing activity were

 II-4
again reported. On the supply side, credit standards tightened for all types of loans, with no bankers
reporting an easing of standards. Most notably, 22 percent of bankers reported tightened standards for
commercial and industrial loans, and 20 percent reported tightened standards for consumer loans. Both
loan and deposit rates fell across the board since the last report. Delinquency rates were reported
unchanged for all types of lending.

 III-1 THIRD DISTRICT - PHILADELPHIA Business conditions in the Third District remained slow in December, but there were a
few positive signs. Manufacturers reported continuing declines in shipments and orders, but the
rate of decline appeared to be easing. Sales of general merchandise at area stores for the
Christmas shopping period increased a few percent over the prior year, slightly exceeding
pessimistic forecasts. Auto sales fell in December compared to November but seemed to be
holding steady in early January. Bank loan volumes increased in December in the major credit
categories: business, consumer, and real estate. The outlook in the Third District business community is cautious. Manufacturers predict
an upturn by the middle of the year, and they have slightly raised capital spending plans for the
first half of the year. Retailers are not certain that sales will continue moving up in the next few
months, and they have generally modest sales targets for the first half of the year. Auto dealers
anticipate nearly steady sales for most of this year at a slower rate than last year. Bank credit
officers see some signs of modestly increasing demand for commercial and industrial loans, but
they say the outlook for consumer lending is unclear and real estate lending could ease.
MANUFACTURING Manufacturing activity in the Third District remained on a downward trend in December,
but there were some indications that the rate of decline was easing. Compared with November,
fewer firms reported decreases in orders and shipments, although business was weak in nearly all
the major manufacturing sectors in the region. Firms producing metals and metal products
continue to report that their customers are shifting to foreign suppliers. Firms producing
electrical and electronic equipment indicated that continuing weakness in the
telecommunications industry has been holding down demand for their products. A majority of

 III-2
the region's manufacturers maintained steady working hours in December, but around one-fourth
made cuts, and only a few firms expanded hours. Area firms continued to reduce inventories, on
balance. Local manufacturers look for recovery to get under way by midyear. Just over half of the
firms surveyed in December forecast increases in orders and shipments over the next six months.
They also expect some firming in industrial prices. On balance, firms in the region have slightly
increased their capital spending plans for the first two quarters of the year.
RETAIL On balance, Third District retailers reported slightly higher sales for the recent Christmas
shopping period compared to a year ago. Increases in sales in the last week of December and the
first week of January provided many area retailers with the boost they needed to achieve year-
over-year gains of around 2 percent, on average. Price reductions to stimulate sales were
described as very deep by store executives, who expect low profits for the season. Retailers
indicated that apparel sales were weak, especially for men's wear. Sales of outerwear were also
quite slow, hampered by unseasonably mild weather during most of December. Sales of
consumer electronics, jewelry, and home furnishings were better than most retailers had
expected. Cautious purchasing by stores prior to the holidays and aggressive discounting afterwards
has generally left area retailers with acceptable inventory levels. Nevertheless, stores in the
region are unlikely to significantly increase buying of spring merchandise. Most retailers have
very modest sales targets for the first half of this year. They see no evidence that consumers will
move to a higher pace of spending soon. Some even expect consumers to look for ways to

 III-3
economize further, at least for the next quarter or two, until general economic conditions
improve. Auto sales in the region fell in December from November, but sales in early January
appeared to be steady at the December pace. Inventories were generally described as low.
Dealers expect sales to fall as manufacturers' incentive-financing programs are scaled back, but
they do not anticipate a continuing decline in demand. Rather, most of those contacted for this
report anticipate a generally steady sales rate this year, albeit below last year's overall rate.
FINANCE Lending at major Third District banks increased moderately in December. Outstanding
loan volume has increased in all major credit categories-commercial, consumer, and real estate.
Much of the increase in consumer lending was said to be seasonal. In contrast, the slight
increase in business lending was seen as a potential trend by bank lending officers, who said low
interest rates and anticipation of improving economic conditions have prompted some business
borrowers to proceed with expansion plans. Concern about business credit quality persists,
however, and several of the bankers contacted for this report said they are more strictly enforcing
credit policies than they had been. Nevertheless, most banks in the region are still actively
seeking to increase their commercial loans. Bankers in the Third District expect business loan demand to move up, but not strongly.
Overall gains in commercial and industrial loans will be limited by bankers' concern about
extending credit to industries currently or potentially experiencing relatively weak conditions,
such as travel, food service, health care, and construction. Bank lending officers are uncertain of
the course of consumer and real estate lending, although many anticipate some easing in the
growth of real estate loans after last year's large increase.

 IV-1 FOURTH DISTRICT - CLEVELAND According to reports gathered the first week of January, the Fourth District economy still
appeared to be in the process of bottoming-out during the last two weeks of November and the
month of December. Some industries, however, did report improved business conditions:
demand for construction services throughout the District remained unexpectedly strong, and
manufacturing reported improvement in the northern part of the District, including expansion in
the Cleveland metro area. Retail sales, on balance, were the same or a bit higher than a year
earlier - an outcome that exceeded expectations. Contacts reported that unseasonably warm
weather contributed to good auto sales, but resulted in poor winter apparel sales. "Cautious optimism" characterizes the 2002 business outlook in the Fourth District. Most
contacts expect a flat first quarter, with recovery beginning late in the second quarter 2002 or
very early in the third quarter. Labor markets continue to struggle. Demand for temporary workers slowed in
December, and job security remained the number-one concern among unionized workers.
While, on average, wage adjustments in new contracts remained fairly constant over the last two
months, several contacts reported renegotiations due to adverse economic conditions. Employers
in the steel and aerospace industries have invoked "economic duress" clauses that exempt them
from certain job-security provisions. Some of these renegotiations have involved wage
concessions or agreements to postpone (with "give-back" provisions) scheduled wage increases.
Our contacts continued to report increasing health care and benefits costs.
Manufacturing The manufacturing outlook continues to improve for the northern part of the District.
Contacts reported industry expansion for the second consecutive month in December for
Northeast Ohio. In the southern part of the District, manufacturing reports were mixed: While
employment remained fairly constant, inventories and prices declined. Overall, new orders and
production declined in December, but the number of manufacturers reporting increases in new
orders rose from November to December. Both the auto and steel industries reported mixed conditions. Some auto plants in the
District worked overtime hours to meet booming demand for their models, while others were
forced to close for two weeks because of slumping sales of the models produced at those plants.
In the steel industry, prices remained steady (with no expectation of decline), and some contacts

 IV-2
reported that they would attempt price increases during the first quarter. While some
steelmakers reported very modest improvement in conditions during the fourth quarter, most
reported that business was flat from the previous quarter. Most contacts still expect conditions to
improve late in the second quarter or early in the third quarter 2002.
Retail Sales Although retailers reported weak activity through most of December, many noted that
activity was strong in the days immediately preceding and following Christmas. Contacts noted
that after-Christmas discounts and promotions were not significantly different from those in
previous years. Overall, retail sales for the holiday season beat expectations, and sales were
about the same, if not slightly better, than sales for the same period in 2000. Individual segments
of the retail sector, however, had widely differing reports: Discount retailers noted that holiday
sales were up 4-8 percent year-over-year, while apparel retailers reported their sales were down
3-9 percent year-over-year for the same six weeks. All contacts blamed weak winter apparel
sales on unseasonably warm weather in the District. In general, contacts expect retail sales for
the first half of 2002 to be flat or slightly better than the first half 2001, followed by marked
improvement in sales for the second half of the year. Auto dealers reported that sales the last half of November and December slowed from the
record pace seen in October (when most contacts reported monthly sales roughly 40 percent
above those in October 2000), but they noted that, despite the recession, December sales were
still around the historical average for the month. On average, contacts expect poor first-quarter
sales for two reasons. First, manufacturer offers for zero-percent financing and cash back on
specific models will expire in January. Second, seasonality and higher-than-expected sales
during the final quarter of 2001 will lower demand. Most dealers expect sales to rebound during
the second or third quarter 2002.
Construction Conditions in the construction industry continued to improve in late November and
through December. Although the industry typically sees a slowdown during the holiday season,
this was not observed this year. Most contacts reported that customer interest in initiating new
projects was "uncharacteristically strong." Building activity has remained steady in both the
commercial and residential sectors. The costs of labor and materials remained steady. Some builders reported that increasing interest rates appear to have compelled some
buyers to act out of concern that if they did not take advantage of lower rates now, the

 IV-3
opportunity might not exist later. Others voiced concern that the rising interest rate environment
might adversely affect demand, but, on balance, District builders remain cautiously optimistic
about their prospects for 2002.
Trucking and Shipping Trucking and shipping activity declined in December relative to October and November,
but most of the decrease was seasonal (because Christmas fell on a Tuesday, manufacturer
holiday shut-downs were slightly longer than usual, which also contributed to lower figures for
December). Shipping of retail goods was slightly stronger than expected, but shipping activity
for manufactured and manufacturing-related goods continued to decline. Overall shipping
activity was down approximately 10 percent year-over-year for the fourth quarter. Contacts
reported that total shipping volume throughout 2001 was well below prior-year figures. Initial reports suggest that shipping activity the first six weeks of 2002 will remain steady
from the last six weeks of 2001. Although carriers expect activity for January and the first half
of February to be slow (in part due to seasonality), contacts are cautiously optimistic about the
last half of the year. Most contacts expect turnaround in their industry late in the second quarter
or early in the third. With the exception of a recent slight uptick, diesel prices declined throughout late
November and December. Surcharges associated with energy are currently very low, and some
contacts reported that they have eliminated these surcharges.
Banking Competition for borrowers continued to be very aggressive across all lines of lending as
the demand for commercial and consumer loans remained soft. Most contacts reported that
applications for loans were holding steady, but one contact did report an increase in applications.
Banks reported that the credit quality of loan applicants had diminished. Roughly half our
contacts reported an increase in the rate for loan delinquencies, while the other half reported a
decrease. Mortgage refinancing activity remained strong, although contacts did note some decline
in activity during the second half of December as interest rates began increasing. Demand for
auto loans at district banks remained low, as manufacturers continued to offer zero-percent
financing.

 FIFTH DISTRICT-RICHMOND Overview: Fifth District economic activity was mixed from late November through early
January. Declines in manufacturing output and retail sales accompanied moderate growth in
service firms' revenues. Manufacturers reported substantially lower shipments and new orders in
December, and a snowstorm in early January caused some manufacturers to curtail their
operations for a day or two. Nevertheless, manufacturers remained optimistic about their
prospects for the next six months. In retail, holiday sales were slightly below year-ago levels and
retailers said that unusually large price discounts were needed to move merchandise. Stronger
conditions emerged in the service sector as revenues at services firms rose solidly in December.
In real estate, residential and commercial realtors reported little change in sales and leasing
activity, while bankers said that higher interest rates damped residential mortgage refinancings.
Employment continued to fall at District factories in December, but temporary employment
agencies reported somewhat stronger demand for most categories of workers. In agriculture, rain
and snow in recent weeks helped replenish depleted soil moisture levels and improved the
conditions of small grain crops. Retail: Seasonally-adjusted retail sales were moderately lower and shopper traffic was
relatively light in District stores since our last report. Contacts at hardware and building supply
stores in Richmond, Va., and Columbia, S.C., for example, said that sales were subdued. A big-
box retailer in the Tidewater area of Virginia experienced flat revenues, and sales were slightly
lower for a discounter in southeastern West Virginia. A manager at an upscale department store
with locations throughout the District said weak demand led them to lower merchandise orders in
an attempt to reduce inventories. Holiday price discounting was intense. A contact at a large
Charleston, S.C., department store reported that unusually large discounts were necessary during
the holidays to entice customers to buy. Big-ticket sales were flat in November and December
and automobile sales were mixed as manufacturers' incentives trailed off. Services: Demand picked up for many District services firms in November and
December. A contact at a catering firm in Charleston, W.V., said a solid local economy resulted
in strong holiday business and higher orders for the coming year, while a West Virginia-based
web designer reported stepped-up demand for his services. A fundraising firm in Charlotte, N.C.,
described increased success in raising money for the arts and other local charitable organizations.
Additionally, businesses that offer security and other anti-terrorism related services cited a

pickup in demand. Healthcare industry contacts reported generally steady demand for their
services, but two North Carolina contacts said they were seeing increased competition for nurses,
with bonus offers and "wage wars" common. Manufacturing: Activity in the manufacturing sector continued to contract in December
and early January. Compared to prior months, shipments declined at a faster pace although new
orders fell at a somewhat slower rate. Textile manufacturers reported generally weak demand for
their products and continued intense competition from foreign producers. Additional
bankruptcies were reported, most notably by a large textile firm headquartered in Greensboro,
N.C. Chemical and primary metal manufacturers reported declines both in their shipments and
new orders in December. In early January, a winter storm disrupted manufacturing activity. A
number of manufacturing plants shut down operations for one or two days and some plants could
not ship products or receive raw materials because of the poor road conditions. Most of these
manufacturers, however, indicated that lost output was made up within several days, although
overtime pay and additional utilities expenses were incurred in some instances. Both
manufacturing employment and the average workweek declined in December, while wages rose
modestly and prices were mostly flat. In spite of the recent softening in activity, Fifth District manufacturers were more
optimistic regarding their prospects for the first half of 2002. Respondents anticipated that
shipments, new orders, and capital expenditures would increase substantially by mid-year. Finance: District loan officers reported that since our last report, higher mortgage
interest rates constrained residential lending, while weak demand continued to hamper
commercial lending. Residential mortgage lenders noted that refinancing activity fell steeply in
December, although loans for house purchases have been resilient in most areas of the District.
Commercial lenders said that many of their clients had curtailed business expansion plans and
were waiting for a turnaround in their businesses before committing to further borrowing. A
Richmond, Va., banker said that lending activity was focused on loans "already in the pipeline,"
rather than new loans initiated in recent weeks. Several commercial lenders, however, said that
they expected a pickup in lending activity by the second quarter of 2002 since many of their
clients expected healthier business growth by that time. Real Estate: Residential realtors and homebuilders reported little change in home sales
since our last report. Several contacts noted that sales of higher-priced homes slowed while sales
of moderately-priced homes held steady. A realtor in Greensboro, N.C., noted a decline in sales

 V-3
of upper-end homes in that area and said that job insecurity in the wake of the bankruptcy filing
by a local textile firm was still depressing the housing market. But a brighter note was sounded
by a realtor in southern Maryland who said that sales activity across all price ranges had
increased "incredibly" in recent weeks. His agency was so busy on New Year's Eve that he
wondered why prospective clients were calling him and not "out partying." Several
homebuilders in North Carolina reported lower lumber prices, but construction labor costs were
generally stable. Commercial realtors across the District reported little change in leasing and construction
activity in recent weeks. Leasing activity in the office and industrial sectors remained subdued,
while the leasing of retail space increased only slightly. Rents continued to move lower for the
office and industrial markets, but stabilized in the retail market-a realtor in Greensboro, N.C.,
described current rent levels as "more realistic." Vacancy rates across all sectors continued to
rise, but at a slower pace in recent months. New construction activity was generally flat across
the District. Tourism: Tourism activity was mixed in December and early January. Contacts at
several District ski resorts reported that the ski season opened about three weeks behind schedule
due to an unseasonably warm December. A manager at a ski resort in Virginia said that bookings
were down about 50 percent from last year. He noted, however, that patronage picked up
considerably during the week between Christmas and New Year's Day. A contact at a West
Virginia ski resort told us that advance reservations were also trending higher, in part because of
colder weather and lower gasoline prices. Tourism in coastal areas was somewhat stronger than
we last reported. A contact on the Outer Banks of North Carolina noted that concerns with airline
safety had boosted tourism in the area. Temporary Employment: Contacts at temporary employment agencies reported
somewhat stronger demand for workers since our last report. Demand was notably higher for
light industrial and warehouse workers and for call center employees. Most temporary agency
managers reported little change in wages, although a Rockville, Md., agent noted that, in order to
get work, some temporary employees were willing to accept slightly lower wages. A number of
contacts said they expected demand for temporary workers to pick up over the next six months,
in part because some clients were now moving ahead with projects that had been put on hold. Agriculture: The dry weather that had persisted in recent months ended in December as
rain showers fell across most of the District. In addition, a snowstorm moved up the East Coast

 V-4
in early January, covering much of the Fifth District with sleet and snow. The much-needed
precipitation boosted small grain conditions and helped restore soil moisture levels in
deteriorating pastures. With the 2001 harvests complete, District agricultural bankers say that
bumper crops helped the financial condition of many farm customers, but they noted that low
crop prices continue to leave some financially vulnerable.

 VI-1 SIXTH DISTRICT - ATLANTA Summary: Economic conditions in the Southeast were mixed during December and
early January. According to contacts, retail sales were mediocre, and vehicle sales declined for
some makes and models. Residential real estate markets remained solid, but weakness in
commercial real estate markets persisted. The manufacturing sector also remained weak, but
there were indications of a modest pickup in orders for some industries and more stability in
employment levels. Bank loan activity was still concentrated in the consumer sector, although a
modest increase in demand for financing of mergers and acquisitions was noted. Travel activity
improved further from the lows experienced after September 11, but hotel occupancy was still
below normal. An early January snowstorm temporarily disrupted economic activity in parts of
the District. Inflation indicators were mostly subdued. Consumer Spending: Deep discounting was widespread during the holiday season as
retailers struggled to make sales. Sales results were mixed across product types, and discount
stores continued to fare better than other types of retailers. Apparel sales were difficult because
of unusually mild weather in early December. Sales of home electronic and other home-related
products were generally strong. According to contacts, post-holiday traffic was down compared
with recent years, although some also noted that the amount of clearance merchandise available
was also lower. December vehicle sales were mixed. Car sales were reported to have declined sharply for
some makes and models, but there were gains in light truck segments and for popular SUV
models. Meanwhile, used car dealers reported large inventories and weak prices. Real Estate and Construction: The District's single-family home markets continued to
perform well in December. The demand for low- to mid-priced homes was strong, while the
demand for high-priced homes remained soft in several markets. Contacts suggested that home

 VI-2
sales may have equaled or surpassed year-ago levels in December, while the pace of new home
construction was near the level of a year ago. Commercial real estate markets have changed little since our last report, with conditions
remaining weak in most areas. Vacancy rates increased in some markets, and the increasing
abundance of sublease space across the District kept absorption low. Construction levels have
slowed considerably over the year, and current commercial construction is dominated by build-
to-suit and government projects. Manufacturing: Factory activity remained weak in December, and further job cuts were
announced in several industries. Some companies reported reductions in part-time workers and
the elimination of extra shifts. However, reports were also more mixed than in recent months.
Several firms noted a modest pickup in new orders and were rehiring some of their recently laid-
off staff. Also, while one large auto manufacturer was considering cutting capacity at a District
assembly plant, some other auto producers in the District were working overtime to keep up with
demand. The District's defense contractors continued to benefit from contracts for a variety of
projects, and a producer of health-care products announced plans to expand capacity because of
continued strong demand. Tourism and Business Travel: Travel activity continued to improve in December from
the lows experienced following September 11, but hotel occupancy was still below normal in
several locations. In south Florida, occupancies remained held down by the decline in
international tourists. The size of the price discounting for hotel rooms, cruises, and rental cars
has lessened in markets where traffic has nudged higher. Activity at Mississippi Gulf Coast
casinos remained solid. The New Orleans economy will benefit from hosting the Super Bowl in
early February, and early bookings for the Carnival season are encouraging. An unexpectedly
severe snowstorm in parts of the District in early January disrupted travel activity.

 VI-3 Financial: Loan activity remained mixed. The consumer sector was robust in most parts
of the District. Refinancing and home equity loan activity was "booming," according to some
contacts. Delinquency rates on consumer loans continued to increase but remained at low levels
overall. Commercial loan demand remained soft, but banks reported some increase in merger
and acquisition activity in the District. Wages and Prices: Wage and price pressures were subdued in the District. According
to some reports, the size of year-end bonuses or pay increases for salaried workers was lower
than in recent years. Hospitals continued to hire aggressively and offer large signing bonuses.
Reports again suggested that recent price increases have been limited to health-care costs,
security costs, and insurance premiums. Home price increases continued to moderate, while
previous sharp declines in prices for hotel accommodations and other travel-related services
abated in areas where demand has recovered. Low energy prices continued to moderate gas and
oil extraction activity in Louisiana. Agriculture: Crop producers in the District remain pressured by low market prices.
Prices were well below year-ago levels for cotton, soybeans, and peanuts. However, lower crop
prices have helped reduce feed costs for the District's large poultry industry as well as cattle
producers. Early indications suggest that the 2001 sugar harvest will fall short of last year
because of recent drought conditions, but prices for Florida's citrus products continued to
improve on reports of weaker growing conditions in Brazil.

 VII-1 SEVENTH DISTRICT-CHICAGO Summary. Economic activity in the Seventh District was again soft in December and early
January, with scattered reports of improvement in a few sectors. Most retailers failed to meet their
holiday sales goals, despite heavy discounting and extended shopping hours. Residential
construction and real estate activity picked up somewhat toward the end of 2001, while softness in
the nonresidential segment persisted. Despite progress in working down inventories, industrial
production remained weak in the District. Overall loan demand softened toward the end of the year
as higher mortgage interest rates put a damper on new mortgage refinancing activity, and business
borrowers stayed on the sidelines. Labor markets were relatively weak, but the rate of job losses
appeared to be waning in some areas. Upward pressure on wages and prices continued to ease due to
the general economic slowdown. Consumer spending. Overall consumer spending remained relatively soft in December and
early January. Holiday sales failed to meet most retailers' expectations, despite extended shopping
hours and heavy discounting that began earlier in the season. According to some national retail
chains, as well as national casual dining chains, sales results in the Midwest were weaker than in
most other regions. Many contacts reported that sales picked up noticeably in the days immediately
before and after Christmas day, but not enough to overcome softer sales earlier in the period.
However, electronics and home-related items were said to have sold well. Winter apparel sales were
hampered for most of December by unseasonably warm weather, but did pick up with large discounts
and colder temperatures in late December and early January. Businesses dependent on winter sports
also suffered as a result of the relatively warm temperatures, as well as a lack of snow. Light vehicle
sales in the District slowed modestly from November to December, but remained seasonally strong
as a result of steady advertising and generous consumer incentives. Overall retail inventories were
reported to be in good shape, as many retailers had already planned for softer holiday sales, but new
light vehicle inventories continued to be quite low. One airline contact noted that flights were fuller
than expected over the holidays, and the company had recently added marginally to its capacity.
There were few reports of intensifying upward pressure on prices and, in fact, one contact reported
that a price increase sparked many more complaints than in previous years. Construction/real estate. Construction and real estate reports were mixed as 2001 drew to a
close, as residential activity remained fairly robust while nonresidential activity continued to weaken.

 VII-2
Sales of both new and existing homes were said to be relatively strong, largely due to favorable
interest rates. While fixed-rate mortgage interest rates increased modestly from recent lows, many
contacts indicated that home sales continued to show improvement from the effects of September 11.
Some realtors and builders suggested that December's sales results may have equaled the previous
December, after several months of decreases in year-ago comparisons. First-time-buyer homes sold
briskly while luxury homes continued to languish on the market. Likewise, price appreciation was
said to be stronger at the lower end of the market than at the upper end. Many contacts suggested
that the confidence of potential home buyers continued to recover from the effects of September 11,
and expected 2002 to be a very good sales year. Nonresidential activity remained sluggish in
December and early January. Office vacancy rates continued to rise, putting further downward
pressure on rent rates. In addition, landlords were said to be increasingly willing to offer concessions
such as more generous tenant improvement packages. A commercial realtor in one large metro area,
however, reported a significant increase in the number of "lookers" coming through office buildings
since Thanksgiving. The market for light industrial and retail space was reportedly steady but soft,
and retail vacancies were increasing in some areas. Construction of infrastructure projects was
reportedly softening in some areas as well. Manufacturing. Overall manufacturing activity remained weak at the end of 2001, but there
were scattered signs of modest improvement in some industries. Largely due to extraordinary
incentives, nationwide light vehicle sales exceeded manufacturers' expectations again in December,
despite softening from November. As inventories remained very lean, one manufacturer indicated
that its light vehicle production in the first quarter of 2002 would be 6 percent to 7 percent higher
than a year earlier. Steel production picked up in the last week of December and prices reportedly
increased modestly from very low levels. With inventories said to be well below desired levels at
both mills and service centers, one industry contact stated that "the reduction in steel inventories is
over." Prices of gypsum wallboard continued to move up from very low levels, but were flat with a
year ago. One industry contact forecast that wallboard shipments would be down 5 percent to 10
percent in 2002, adding that 2001 was the second best year ever for the industry. Conditions in
heavy equipment industries (including heavy trucks) remained very weak, and most manufacturers of
heavy equipment cut their forecasts for 2002. Noting that retail sales of equipment were no longer
falling, however, one industry contact said that the bottom of the downturn was near. A machine tool
producer in the District said that "things are getting better every day," and this firm had begun to hire

 VII-3
new workers. Banking/finance. Bankers' reports on lending activity were mixed. Household borrowing
remained strong, but tapered off in December as long-term interest rates rose. Some banks reported
record volumes of mortgage refinancing closings in December, although the number of deals in the
pipeline fell off during the month. Standards and terms for household loans were largely unchanged
and credit quality was said to be holding steady to improving slightly. Reports on business lending
activity were mixed, but generally indicated continued softness. Most lenders noted little or no
pickup in demand beyond normal seasonal variations. One large bank, however, reported that
business loan volumes were up about 6 percent in December in year-ago comparisons, after being
flat for most of 2001. There were a few reports from bankers of further tightening of standards for
loans to firms in industries that have been hit hard by the general economic slowdown, such as
tourism and travel. At the same time, the number of small businesses complaining of a lack of access
to credit became more frequent, with one contact noting that "some firms cannot get operating credit
even though they are profitable." There was little further deterioration in overall business loan
quality reported, although one lender said "we will be holding our breath for the next six months." Labor markets. Labor markets remained soft in December and early January, although
there were some signs that they may be stabilizing in some areas. Year-over-year growth in initial
unemployment insurance claims in District states fell to near zero in late December, after being as
high as 80 percent earlier in 2001. However, continuing claims remained high and there were several
reports indicating that many workers were still out of ajob. A large District auto group noted that
resumes from workers seeking office jobs were very high in recent weeks and a large realty firm
indicated that new realtor classes were "exceptionally large" in November and December. Some
state analysts said they did not see the typical seasonal "bump" in retail employment and contacts in
casual dining suggested that workers were "easy to find." Layoff announcements from
manufacturers became less frequent and some companies actually reported new hiring. With
persistent softness in labor markets, upward wage pressures continued to abate. Contacts from a
wide variety of industries indicated that wage increases had fallen from mid-single digits early in
2001 to low single digits by the end of the year.

 VIII-1 Eighth District - St. Louis
Summary Economic activity in the District continues to be weak, particularly in the manufacturing
sector. A small number of manufacturing industries, however, have begun to recover. Retail
holiday sales were about the same as last year's and were buoyed by promotions and extended
store hours. The residential real estate sector remains relatively strong, although weakness
continues in some parts of the District. New housing permits continue to be issued at higher
level than a year earlier. Commercial real estate markets have continued to be stagnant
throughout the District, although commercial construction has been expanding in some areas.
Credit standards for commercial loans have been tightening, particularly for commercial real
estate loans. Deposits at banks rose through the fourth quarter along with mortgage volume and
mortgage delinquencies.
Manufacturing and Other Business Activity The District's manufacturing sector continues to be weak, as reports are dominated by
announcements of closings, consolidations, and cutbacks. Affected industries include steel,
automotive and tire, furniture, fabrics, tools, electrical products, oil and gas, and aluminum.
Most contacts report difficulty maintaining profit levels, which they attribute to declining orders.
Nonetheless, some firms in the food, appliance, cardboard, garment, and plastics industries are
experiencing expansion and recovery. The District's holiday sales were slightly below expectations, although in line with sales
for the same period last year. Numerous retailers used holiday promotions and longer store
hours to lure customers. Apparel, toys, and jewelry were slow movers, while music, video, and
home entertainment products have sold well. Travel and logistics companies are still recovering
from the demand reductions following September 11th, while sales for grocery stores, hair

 VIII-2
salons, and dry-cleaning services remain steady. Despite the weakness in retail sales, one major
retailer in the District has announced an aggressive expansion that includes the addition of
several stores.
Real Estate and Construction Spurred by lower mortgage rates, home sales across large parts of the District continued
to be strong in the fourth quarter. New homes continue to sell well in Arkansas, where October
year-to-date unit sales and volume sales were higher than a year earlier. Contacts report a
similar experience in October for Memphis, along with a record November for Evansville. On
the other hand, sales of homes in the $125,000-to-$250,000 range remain slow in northern
Mississippi, where inventories continue to grow. In Memphis, the market for office real estate
had a net positive absorption rate for the third quarter of 2001, as it had for the previous quarter.
In St. Louis, vacancy rates for bulk space, service center space, and office/warehouse space
ended the year higher than they were at the beginning of 2001. Residential construction opportunities remain strong in most of the District, as November
year-to-date permit levels were higher than a year earlier. Commercial construction
opportunities have begun to expand in parts of the District. For example, several companies
have announced plans to construct manufacturing and production facilities in western Kentucky
and southern Illinois. Also, state and local governments in Kentucky and southern Indiana have
awarded infrastructure contracts for highways, bridges, and water treatment facilities.
Banking and Finance A recent survey of senior loan officers at a sample of District banks revealed somewhat
tighter standards for commercial and industrial (C&I) loans in the last three months. Contacts
report that demand for C&I loans and consumer loans has become moderately weaker due to
lower customer financing needs. Internal credit ratings for C&I loans, however, were largely

 VIII-3
unchanged, as were standards for residential mortgages, consumer loans, and credit cards. In
contrast, 60 percent of contacts report a slight tightening of credit standards for commercial real
estate loans. According to contacts, demand deposits and time deposits increased moderately between
October and December, while mortgage volume rose following reductions in interest rates.
Contacts at local banks in Louisville report increased provisions for loan losses due to an
increase in the number of mortgage delinquencies.
Agriculture and Natural Resources While it is too early to know for certain, the District's dormant winter wheat crop may
have been damaged by substantial rain in mid-December followed by frigid temperatures and the
absence of a protective snow cover in late December and early January. Following a larger-than-
expected crop, cotton prices fell by about 11 percent between late November and early January.
Also, contacts remain uncertain about the potential impact that the temporary suspension of the
Step II cotton subsidy program will have on exports. In conjunction with the economic
slowdown, cattle and hog prices have fallen over the last three months, thereby squeezing profit
margins. Reports indicate, however, that profit margins have been boosted by the lower price of
nitrogen fertilizer compared with last year, as the price of natural gas-a major cost component
in the production of nitrogen-based fertilizer-fell by approximately 75 percent over the period.

 IX-1 NINTH DISTRICT-MINNEAPOLIS
Economic activity in the Ninth District over recent months has been somewhat mixed.
Commercial construction has slowed while residential construction is up slightly. While
consumer spending has grown, manufacturing, agriculture, tourism, energy and mining are either
mixed or down slightly. Meanwhile, from mid-November to early January, labor markets
weakened and overall wages and prices are stable. However, decreases in heating costs and
increases in health insurance rates were noted.
Construction and Real Estate
Commercial construction activity is down. Contracts awarded for heavy construction projects in
Minnesota and the Dakotas decreased 10 percent during the three-month period ending in
December compared with last year. The construction of an extended-stay hotel and an upscale
condominium project were both recently suspended in the Minneapolis area due to uncertainties
caused by the Sept. 11 attacks. An architectural firm in Minnesota noted decreased interest in
private building construction for 2002. According to a commercial real estate representative,
recent retail store openings and renovations in the Minneapolis/St. Paul area are at lower levels
than a year ago. Residential construction and sales are up from a year earlier. Bank directors noted that
recent homebuilding and home sales are solid in many parts of the district. Rochester, Minn.,
recorded the second-biggest November for the number of home permits issued. Home sales in
Minneapolis-St. Paul were up 23 percent in November and housing permits issued were up 7
percent in December compared with a year earlier.
Consumer Spending and Tourism
Holiday sales were generally higher at several district malls; however, some clothing stores and
shopping centers reported soft sales. Managers and storeowners at three Montana malls reported
solid holiday sales. A representative of a Minneapolis area mall estimated holiday sales were up
5 percent compared with a year ago, while another Minneapolis area mall reported traffic up over 10 percent. A North Dakota mall reported generally strong holiday sales with some softness in
apparel compared with last year. Retail sales at restaurants and stores were strong during the
week following Christmas, according to a chamber of commerce official in northwestern
Wisconsin. However, a manager of a Minneapolis area mall reported sales were down 3 percent in
December compared with a year earlier. A department store manager in Duluth, Minn., reported

 IX-2
flat holiday sales compared with last year. Winter attire sales during the holidays were slow due
to warm weather, according to a clothing store owner in Minnesota. While auto sales were strong in October and November, a bank director noted that sales
slowed during early December. An auto dealer association representative in Minnesota reported
that sales of new cars were softer in December compared with the previous two months, while
inventories of used cars were up due to a high number of trade-ins during October and
November. Low snowfall levels have decreased winter tourism in several areas. Snowmobile trails
remained ungroomed as of early January in northwestern Wisconsin and several lodging
establishments there reported lower revenues in December compared with past years. In contrast,
a ski resort in northern Minnesota reported solid numbers of skiers in December, while January
bookings are ahead of last year. A Montana ski resort reports strong activity due to favorable
snow conditions in December; however, advanced bookings for the rest of the season are down
compared with last year.
Manufacturing
Overall manufacturing activity is down. A December survey of purchasing managers by
Creighton University indicated decreases in manufacturing activity in Minnesota and South
Dakota and increased activity in North Dakota. In Minnesota, a cabinetmaker and plastics
producer both announced factory closings, while a bus manufacturer plans to cut production. In
addition, a circuit board plant will be closed in western Wisconsin and a grain equipment factory
in South Dakota will shut down.
Mining and Energy
Activity in the energy and mining sectors is down somewhat. Late December district oil and
natural gas exploration levels are slightly behind the levels of mid-November. Meanwhile, an
iron ore mine in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan and a mine in Northern Minnesota both
extended a shutdown, while another mine in Northern Minnesota ended an eight-week shutdown
in December, but at reduced production levels. In contrast, December production at a Montana
palladium/platinum mine was about even with November levels.

 IX-3
Agriculture
Overall agricultural activity is mixed. Early January futures prices for most district agricultural
commodities were little changed from late November. Meanwhile, mild winter conditions across
most parts of the district have aided livestock production, but lack of adequate snow cover has
concerned winter wheat growers.
Employment, Wages and Prices
Labor markets are softer than last reported as several firms have announced layoffs. A
Minnesota-based airline carrier recently shut down its operations, which left 900 employees
jobless. A financial services company will eliminate 400 positions in Minnesota. A commercial
insurer will eliminate 250 positions at its St. Paul headquarters. A survey by a major temporary staffing agency showed that only 12 percent of firms polled in Minneapolis-St. Paul are planning
to add staff during first quarter 2002, down from 34 percent in last year's survey. Initial claims for unemployment insurance in Minnesota for the four-week period ending
December 15 were up 38 percent compared with a year ago. According to results of the
Minneapolis Fed's annual business conditions survey (conducted in November), only 15 percent
of respondents expect employment levels to increase at their companies in 2002, down from 30
percent in last year's survey. However, several medical centers in the district continue to report difficulty filling positions for nurses. Wage increases are modest. Only 5 percent of respondents to a survey of manufacturers in Minnesota, Wisconsin and the Dakotas reported increased wages in December compared with
48 percent a year ago. Wages for district manufacturing workers increased 2.2 percent for the
three-month period ending in November compared with a year ago, the smallest year-over-year increase in almost three years. Bank directors expect wages to increase no more than 2 percent to 4 percent in 2002. Price increases are moderate, with significant price decreases noted in winter heating and increases in health insurance rates. About 22 percent of respondents to a survey of manufacturers in Minnesota. Wisconsin and the Dakotas reported higher product prices in December, down from 40 percent a year ago. Recent natural gas prices for residential customers are down 35 percent to 50 percent in many parts of the district compared with last year. Bank directors reported significantly higher health insurance rates in their areas.

 X-1 TENTH DISTRICT - KANSAS CITY Overview. The Tenth District economy remained relatively weak in December and early
January. Manufacturing activity declined further, construction and real estate markets eased, and
energy activity continued to fall. Holiday retail sales, however, were slightly higher than a year
ago in much of the district, and tourism activity in Colorado was especially strong over the
holidays. In the farm economy, concerns spread about dry conditions throughout the district.
District labor market conditions were similar to the previous survey, with most firms having few
difficulties hiring workers. Wage pressures were virtually nonexistent, and there were some
reports of wage and benefit cuts. Retail prices fell slightly with heavy holiday discounting, while
prices for most manufacturing and construction materials were unchanged. Consumer Spending. Holiday retail sales held up better than many retailers had feared,
with most stores reporting slight increases from a year ago. Large discount stores continued to
enjoy stronger sales than luxury retailers, and home furnishing items sold particularly well.
According to some retailers, the solid holiday sales were due to heavy discounting and are
unlikely to continue. Other stores predict steady sales activity through the spring. Most
managers were satisfied with inventory levels after the holidays. District sources reported that
traffic at ski resorts in Colorado was especially strong over the holiday season, as snow levels
increased in late December. Motor vehicle sales in the district fell slightly from a very strong
November, but were still well above year-ago levels due to attractive financing packages. Most
of these incentives ended with the new year, however, and dealers expect overall vehicle sales to
weaken considerably in coming months. The strong sales of new cars in recent months have
produced an abundance of late-model used vehicles on dealer lots.

 X-2 Manufacturing. District factory activity weakened further in December. A higher
percentage of firms reported year-over-year declines in production, shipments, and new orders
than in the previous survey. A large number of manufacturers continued to shed workers from
their payrolls, and capital spending remained well below year-ago levels. On a positive note,
however, a higher percentage of plant managers expected future increases in production than in
previous surveys. Most manufacturers continued to trim inventories, but many expect inventory
levels to stabilize in coming months. No significant shortages of materials were reported, and
supplier delivery times remained largely unchanged. Real Estate and Construction. Residential construction activity was down slightly in
December, and commercial real estate markets remained weak. Home sales and housing starts
were especially sluggish in Colorado, which has been hit hard by recent layoffs. Residential
sales and starts in the rest of the district were mixed, with little activity occurring over the
holidays. Sales remained weaker for high-end homes than for other types of homes.
Commercial realtors continued to report weakness in district office markets. Construction starts
have slowed significantly, coming to a virtual standstill in some areas. However, completed
projects continue to come online, pushing vacancy rates up further. The surplus of office space
was cited as being particularly problematic in Denver and Kansas City. In Denver, rent and
tenant improvement concessions from landlords were said to be masking the full extent of rent
declines in the local commercial market. Banking. Bankers report that loans decreased and deposits increased since the last survey, reducing loan-deposit ratios. Demand fell for commercial and industrial loans,
residential construction loans, and commercial real estate loans. Demand for home mortgages
also eased, with a number of bankers reporting a dropoff in refinancing activity. On the deposit
side, demand deposits, NOW accounts, and money market deposit accounts all increased. All

 X-3
respondent banks reduced their prime lending rates, but most banks left their consumer lending
rates unchanged. Lending standards were generally unchanged. Energy. Energy activity in the district continued to ease in December and early January.
The region's count of active oil and gas drilling rigs reached a two-year low, as continued warm
weather and the slowdown in the economy constrained energy prices. However, district sources
expect prices and activity to ramp back up in 2002. Several district firms also reported
expansion of coal-bed methane exploration activity into previously untapped portions of the
district. Agriculture. Concerns about dry weather persisted across agricultural areas of the
district. There was little or no snow cover to protect the winter wheat crop from extreme cold
temperatures, and lack of moisture has caused some signs of deterioration in the crop. Dry
weather has also limited pasture growth, causing most ranchers to be reluctant to expand their
cattle herds. District bankers report that some weakness in farm loan portfolios may surface
during year-end credit reviews but that government payments to crop producers and strong
livestock profits in the first half of 2001 will likely provide stability. Wages and Prices. District labor market conditions remained similar to the previous
survey, with firms continuing to report few difficulties hiring workers. The pace of layoffs rose
slightly in December after slowing in November, but there were also reports that some
companies that had put off adding workers after September 11 were beginning to hire again.
Shortages also persisted for several specific occupations, including nurses, pharmacists, and
some skilled building trades. There was virtually no evidence of wage pressures outside these
occupations. In fact, several firms have cut wages and others have offered smaller merit pay
increases than in the past. Some employers have also increased employees' share of health care
costs. Most firms reported relatively few complaints from workers about these changes. Retail

 X-4
prices fell slightly due to heavy holiday discounting, but are expected to return to previous levels
in the near future. Prices increased for some manufacturing materials, while prices for many
petroleum-related materials eased. Some plant managers expect increases in material prices in
coming months. Prices for construction materials remained largely unchanged.

 XI-1 ELEVENTH DISTRICT-DALLAS Eleventh District economic activity continued to decline in late-November and December, but
contacts were generally more upbeat about the outlook than six weeks ago. Many contacts remain
cautious about the outlook and do not expect much improvement until the second quarter at the earliest.
Manufacturing activity was flat or slightly down. Business service firms say activity suggests the
economy is faltering, and the airline industry continues to suffer from weak demand and soaring
security costs. A burst of sales around Christmas helped many retailers meet their expectations for the
season, although discounting was very heavy. Contacts at financial institutions say loan demand
remains flat, and there have been no reported changes to delinquency rates. Construction and real
estate activity continued to weaken, and the energy industry continued to decline. There was little
change in agricultural conditions. Prices and Labor Markets. Price reports were mostly unchanged or lower. Warm weather
and flagging demand led to declines in natural gas, refined product and crude oil prices in late
November and early December. Forecasts of colder weather and collaboration between OPEC and
non-OPEC oil producers to restrict crude oil production led prices to bounce back just below mid-
November levels. Inventories of distillates, heating oil and diesel are twenty million barrels higher than
last year. Natural gas inventories built to 3.1 trillion cubic feet in storage due to warm November
weather. With 45 percent of the heating season behind us, contacts expect to end the winter with a
substantial overhang of natural gas in storage. Most manufacturers reported stable or declining prices, and nearly all contacts said inventories
were in line with expectations. Retailers said price cuts were higher than planned and deeper than last
year. While contacts in many industries noted the benefits of lower energy costs, most said selling
prices were falling more than costs. Rising medical, property and liability insurance costs remain a
serious concern. Labor markets continue to loosen. Contacts in all industries report that it is easier to obtain
quality workers and wage pressures have eased. There were fewer reports of future layoffs expected,
but there were no reports of hiring and some contacts said they were not replacing workers when they
leave. Manufacturing. Manufacturing activity was flat to slightly down in late November and
December. Demand continued to wane for construction-related products, such as fabricated metals,
primary metals, cement and brick. Producers of fabricated metals are concerned because they are
working off backlogs but have not seen an uptick in new orders. Contacts supplying commercial
building are particularly worried about the outlook. The primary metals industry continued to contract.

 XI-2
Cement activity also declined, although this was partly due to weather delays. Contacts say most
demand is coming from public works projects, and demand for private projects continues to falter.
Brick sales fell slightly, and inventories are a little high. Lumber producers reported some seasonal
slowing, but said that low mortgage rates were stimulating demand. Paper producers reported little
change in activity with sales seasonally slower. Glass sales were also seasonally slower, and producers
have cut production to keep inventories in line. Demand for some high-tech products improved slightly since the last survey. Consumer
demand for computers and related equipment remained good while demand from businesses was flat to
slightly improved. Demand for telecommunications products was still down, however, with one firm
reporting sales down 20 percent from this time last year. Most high tech contacts remain cautious, d
expecting little or no improvement in demand until the 2n quarter, at the earliest. Energy-related manufacturers continued to report difficult conditions. Refiners have seen
margins fall steadily throughout the last two months-to the lowest levels in two years-as gasoline and
heating oil prices weakened steadily. Still, Texas and Louisiana refineries continued to operate at high
levels. Demand for plastics and petrochemicals remained weak and a serious capacity glut in some
products led to price declines for polyethylene, polystyrene, and polyvinyl chloride. Services. Business service contacts say activity levels suggest the economy is faltering.
Bankruptcy and litigation activity remains strong, while other activity is "dead in the water." Real
estate activity is "okay" but has slowed. Demand for temporary services has been flat; demand is
coming from the service sector, including retail, and some manufacturing. One service firm noted that
their customers have projects and the money to execute them, but have decided to put them on hold
until April. The airline industry continues to struggle with weak demand and soaring security-related costs.
The industry has significantly reduced capacity, with 15 percent fewer aircraft in service compared to a
year ago. Industry capacity is roughly at 1997-98 levels. Price cuts stimulated strong leisure demand
over the holidays, but business demand and international traffic remains weak. Revenues are 15-20
percent below last year's levels. Retail Sales. Retail sales were weak in late-November and December but activity picked up
right before and after Christmas, leaving most retailers near their expected level of sales. Sales were
weakest at department stores and high-end retailers. "Tremendous" discounting helped clear inventory,
and retailers say inventories are in line with last year. The last minute flurry of sales led to optimism
about future sales growth because some "consumers are purchasing goods at a discount, where
previously they weren't purchasing at all." However, many stores have reduced their purchases for the
first quarter and do not expect sales to pick up much until the second quarter.

 XI-3 Auto dealers reported small declines in the number of cars sold. They believe this is due to the
removal of zero percent financing. Contacts expect the first quarter of 2002 to stall because the
financing incentives "bought up most of the market." Dealers expect an increase of rebates soon. Financial Services. Loan demand remains flat overall. However, contacts at medium sized
institutions are reporting strong growth for 2001 and good expectations for the coming year. Small
business lending is stable, and refinancing activity has been strong. Perceptions that economic recovery
later in the year will bring increased interest rates have pushed those on the fence to refinance or
borrow money now. Consequently, lenders are optimistic about the coming six months. There were no
reported changes to delinquency rates or other indications of a weakness in the bank performance
measures. Construction and Real Estate. Construction and real estate activity continued to weaken over
the last six weeks. Office real estate activity has been slow, according to contacts who say they are
cautious. Industrial activity is also slow, and some big box space has been vacant for over a year.
Space that had been occupied by telecommunications firms is being refitted and re-marketed for other
uses. Housing markets remain soft, particularly for higher priced homes. Contacts say cancellations are
still widespread, and "it's getting harder and taking longer to get buyers to commit." Weakened job
growth has hurt apartment-leasing demand, and concessions and incentives are on the rise. Investment
in the multifamily market has weakened. Energy. The U.S. rig count continues to decline rapidly, falling from over 1000 in early
November to 887 at year-end. The decline seems to have been accelerated by warm weather, a build-
up in natural gas and heating oil inventories, and uncertainty about OPEC's ability to sustain higher
world oil prices. Capital spending in 2002 is expected to be down by about 20 percent. Some rigs have
been leaving the Gulf to work international waters. The outlook for domestic service revenues remains
unchanged, but the risk has grown that oil-related international work will weaken. The international rig
count fell for the second consecutive month. Agriculture. Harvest and land preparation continued in the plains but remained stalled in other
parts of the district because soils were saturated. Supplemental feeding of livestock remained active,
although growth of cool season grasses continued to increase and provide additional forage for
livestock.

 XII-1 TWELFTH DISTRICT-SAN FRANCISCO Reports from Twelfth District contacts indicated that economic activity continued to
contract slightly in late November and December. Respondents reported steady or declining
prices for most goods and services and little wage pressure. Holiday retail sales generally were lackluster, with some retailers faring better than others. Demand for travel and tourism stabilized
in recent weeks, largely due to increased leisure travel. Manufacturing activity remained weak,
although producers of some high-tech products noted a pickup in demand. District agricultural
conditions showed little change during the recent survey period, as low prices and ample
supplies continued to depress profits. Demand for residential real estate cooled slightly but
remained at high levels. In contrast, conditions in commercial real estate markets deteriorated
further, damping construction activity in many areas of the District. Falling loan demand, softening asset quality, and declining interest rate spreads characterized conditions among
District financial institutions in recent weeks, but overall the industry remains healthy. Prices and Wages District respondents reported steady or declining prices for most consumer and business
products and services in the closing weeks of 2001. Intense holiday discounting among retailers
drove down prices for a wide range of manufactured goods, including apparel, electronics,
jewelry, high-end appliances, and home furnishings. Price declines also were noted for energy, air travel, hotel and tour packages, and luxury nondurable goods such as wine and spirits, imported food products, and catered items. Business contacts reported falling prices for
accounting and legal services, advertising and printing, and energy. Rising unemployment continued to ease wage and salary pressures throughout the District. Contacts noted that starting salaries for low- and medium-skilled workers have returned to early
2000 levels, and that starting salaries for information technology jobs have fallen by 15 to 20

 XII-2
percent over the past year. Contacts in information technology, banking, and legal services
reported the elimination of hiring bonuses, decreased moving allowances, and more limited merit
increases. A number of contacts indicated that employees are being asked to pay a larger share of
health care costs than in past years and to accept more limited health plan options.
Retail Trade and Services Respondents throughout the District characterized holiday retail sales in late November
and December as weak, but better than expected given the state of the economy. Sales were
strongest at "big box" retailers, with several reporting modest increases in nominal sales over last
year. Department store sales generally were flat to down relative to last year, as heavy pre-
Christmas discounting offset any increases in sales volumes. Sales were weakest for apparel and
high-end merchandise including jewelry and home furnishings. Electronics, such as computers,
personal data assistants, DVD players, and video game machines reportedly posted the strongest
sales, as consumers took advantage of low prices and delayed payment options. However, relative
to last year, nominal sales gains for these items were modest. Prepared foods and wines
reportedly sold well, with volumes and nominal sales surpassing year-ago levels. Numerous
contacts noted that internet shopping increased in their region relative to last year, despite
increased concern among consumers about mail service. Travel and tourism providers reported modest improvement in airline, rental car, and hotel
bookings in late November and December relative to September and October. Hotel industry
contacts noted that occupancy rates stabilized in recent weeks, but remain well below year-ago
levels. Although tourism around markets largely accessed by car such as Arizona, Southern
California, and ski areas in Northern California and Utah continued to outperform markets
dependent on air travel such as Hawaii, Las Vegas, and San Francisco, the gap closed somewhat

 XII-3
compared to the previous survey period. The improvement in travel and tourism bookings was
almost entirely in the leisure travel market where consumers have responded to lower prices. In
contrast, contacts throughout the District reported ongoing restrictions on nonessential business
travel, due largely to the weak economy. Despite the pickup in leisure travel, heavy discounting
continued to depress profits in the industry.
Manufacturing Although the District's manufacturing sector continued to contract in late November and
December, contacts noted signs of stabilization, especially in the high-tech sector. High-tech
producers reported fewer order cancellations and a slight pickup in bookings compared to the last
survey period. In addition, inventories and capacity utilization remained steady or increased
slightly. High-tech producers also noted that the pace of layoffs and job elimination eased in
recent weeks.
Agriculture and Resource-Related Industries Respondents reported little change in District agricultural conditions in recent weeks, with
low prices and ample supply continuing to depress profits in the industry. Food safety has become
a major concern of agricultural producers, with many investigating ways to protect against
potential threats and working on ways to assure consumers of the quality of the products. On the
bright side, contacts noted a pickup in export demand for a wide variety of agricultural products. With the prices of most energy commodities falling, natural gas and oil producers have
begun to reduce drilling activity. In addition, interest in siting and building electrical power plants
has slowed, with some developers backing off their "fast track" approach and taking a more wait-
and-see attitude.

 XII-4
Real Estate and Construction District residential real estate markets remained solid through December, although signs of
slowing were noted in most regions. Contacts reported relatively stable home prices but declines
in rental rates, particularly for high-end properties. Demand for commercial properties continued
to cool, particularly in Arizona, Northern California, and the Pacific Northwest. The slowing in
commercial real estate markets tempered construction activity in most District states.
Financial Institutions District financial institutions reported a slight weakening of conditions over the previous
survey period. Respondents reported continued declines in net loan demand, especially among
businesses, and some slowing in the demand for mortgage refinancing. Contacts also indicated
that, while credit quality is generally good, signs of deteriorating asset quality have emerged. The
most common theme among respondents was the negative effect that low interest rates have begun
to have on interest rate margins and earnings. Respondents reported that bank capital and liquidity
were ample, and that competition for quality borrowers remained intense.

