 For use at 2:00 p.m., E.D.T. Wednesday October 15, 2008
Summary of Commentary on ____________________ Current Economic Conditions By Federal Reserve District October 2008

SUMMARY OF COMMENTARY ON CURRENT ECONOMIC CONDITIONS BY FEDERAL RESERVE DISTRICTS October 2008

 TABLE OF CONTENTS
Summary……………… . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . i
First District - Boston . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I-1
Second District - New York . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . II-1
Third District - Philadelphia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . III-1
Fourth District - Cleveland …. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . IV-1
Fifth District - Richmond ……. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . V-1
Sixth District - Atlanta ..……. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . VI-1
Seventh District - Chicago … . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . VII-1
Eighth District - St. Louis …. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .VIII-1
Ninth District - Minneapolis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . IX-1
Tenth District - Kansas City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . X-1 Eleventh District - Dallas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . XI-1 Twelfth District - San Francisco . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . XII-1

 i SUMMARY* Reports indicated that economic activity weakened in September across all twelve
Federal Reserve Districts. Several Districts also noted that their contacts had become
more pessimistic about the economic outlook. Consumer spending decreased in most Districts, with declines reported in
retailing, auto sales and tourism. Nearly all Districts commenting on nonfinancial service
industries noted reduced activity. Manufacturing slowed in most Districts. Residential
real estate markets remained weak, and commercial real estate activity slowed in many
Districts. Credit conditions were characterized as being tight across the twelve Districts,
with several reporting reduced credit availability for both financial and nonfinancial
institutions. District reports on agriculture and natural resources were mostly positive,
although adverse weather associated with hurricanes Ike and Gustav negatively affected
the South and the Midwest. Inflationary pressures moderated a bit in September. While several Districts
noted continuing pass-through of earlier price increases for metals, food and energy, most
indicated that cost pressures had eased. Labor market conditions weakened in most
Districts, and wage pressures remained limited. Several Districts reported lower capital
spending or reductions in capital spending plans due to the high level of uncertainty about
the economic outlook or concerns over the availability of credit. Consumer Spending and Tourism. Consumer spending was softer in nearly all
Districts. Retail sales were reported to have weakened or declined in Philadelphia,
Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, Minneapolis, and Kansas City; Dallas and San
Francisco cited weak or sluggish sales; and Boston and New York indicated that sales
were mixed and moderately below plan sales, respectively. Several Districts noted a
reduction in discretionary spending by consumers and lower sales on big-ticket items.
Several also reported increased activity at discount stores as consumers became more
price conscious and shifted purchases toward less-expensive brands. Retailers cited these
recent sales trends and concerns about credit availability as reasons for a weaker
* Prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago and based on information collected on or before
October 6, 2008. This document summarizes comments received from business and other contacts outside
the Federal Reserve and is not a commentary on the views of Federal Reserve officials.

 ii
economic outlook, including a slow holiday season. Most Districts reporting on light
vehicle sales saw declines, with several Districts pointing to reduced credit availability as
a limiting factor for automobile sales. However, Kansas City, St. Louis, and Chicago
noted that dealers offering incentive and discount programs had seen some positive effect
on sales. Tourism was mixed or weaker for tourist destinations on the East and West
coasts, while both Minneapolis and Atlanta indicated that increases in international
travelers were helping to offset lower domestic travel. Business Spending. Hiring and capital spending varied across Districts. Labor
market conditions weakened in most Districts. Boston, Chicago and Richmond cited
reductions in hiring or hiring plans. Atlanta, Minneapolis, Kansas City, San Francisco
and Dallas all noted some weakening in employment. However, the demand for skilled
labor remained strong in several Districts, and Kansas City noted market tightness for
minimum-wage jobs in leisure and hospitality. Several Districts reported that capital
spending decisions were being influenced by economic uncertainty. New York, Chicago,
Dallas, and San Francisco noted weaker capital spending. Boston reported capital
spending was mixed as firms were cautious about spending resources. Cleveland
reported capital spending remained on plan but intentions to increase outlays have
declined. Philadelphia indicated concerns over restrictions in access to credit were
limiting future capital expenditures for some manufacturers. In contrast, Kansas City and
Chicago reported that capital spending for producers of heavy machinery continued to be
strong. Nonfinancial Services. Nonfinancial service industries experienced weaker
activity in most Districts. Several Districts reported that activity in real-estate and related
industries such as legal and title services was weak. New York cited widespread
deterioration in business conditions. Boston reported consulting firms were experiencing
reduced demand for their services from a range of clients. Cleveland, St. Louis, and
Dallas noted slower activity in the transportation industry; however, Dallas’ slowdown
was due mostly to temporary disruptions caused by hurricane Ike. Trucking contacts in
Atlanta indicated declines in retail, automotive, and construction-related shipments, but
increases in energy and farm products. Minneapolis reported continued strength in
professional business services, while demand for professional business services was

 iii
down in San Francisco and Philadelphia. Demand for healthcare-related services was
strong in Boston, Richmond, and Chicago, but weaker in St. Louis and San Francisco.
Staffing firms reported lower demand for their services in Richmond, Philadelphia, and
Chicago, but noted steady demand in Dallas. Manufacturing. Manufacturing activity moved lower in most Districts, and
contacts expressed heightened concern about the economic outlook. Several Districts
noted that credit conditions were contributing to a high level of uncertainty on the part of
contacts. Declines in manufacturing activity of varying degrees were reported in Boston,
New York, Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas City, San Francisco, and
Dallas. Atlanta reported that production remained at a low level, while Minneapolis
described conditions as mixed and Philadelphia noted a slight increase in activity.
Metals-related industries, including the domestic steel industry, reported slower activity,
although overall levels of production were still high in several Districts. Producers of
housing-related items, building materials and construction equipment continued to
experience low levels of demand across the twelve Districts. Activity in the automotive
industry also continued to decline. Kansas City, Richmond, Philadelphia and Chicago
reported continued strength in exports. However, Atlanta indicated a decline in export
orders, reversing a trend of the past several months. Energy-related manufacturers and
heavy equipment manufacturers with ties to energy or agriculture continued to do well in
most Districts. Dallas and Atlanta reported that hurricanes Ike and Gustav disrupted oil
production and refining, restricting the supply of petroleum and related products and
leading to gasoline shortages in the Southeast and along the East coast. Real Estate and Construction. Residential real estate and construction activity
weakened or remained low in all Districts. Housing activity was reported to have moved
lower in Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Dallas, and
San Francisco. While still slow, residential markets showed some signs of stabilizing in
Cleveland, Atlanta, and Kansas City. Several Districts noted continuing downward price
pressures and an increasing supply of homes for sale due to rising foreclosures.
However, the inventory of unsold homes was reported to have declined in areas of the
Boston and Atlanta Districts as well as in Philadelphia and Cleveland. Tighter credit
conditions were cited as a limiting factor for demand in several Districts. Most Districts

 iv
reported commercial real estate and construction activity had slowed, with New York,
San Francisco and Dallas noting the sharpest declines. In contrast, Cleveland and St.
Louis indicated steady activity. Increases in vacancy rates or sublease space were noted
in Chicago, Boston, New York, Atlanta, and San Francisco. Several Districts reported
project delays and cancellations due to tighter credit conditions and increased economic
uncertainty. Banking and Finance. Credit conditions tightened in all the Districts that
reported on them. Bank lending was described as either stable or lower for both
consumers and businesses. Cleveland, Kansas City, and San Francisco noted that loan
quality had deteriorated. Credit standards were tightened, particularly for commercial
and residential real estate loans, in several Districts. Several also indicated that lenders in
their District had become more highly cautious and more conservative. Richmond noted
increased scrutiny of loan applications by banks and higher collateral requirements on
commercial lending, and Cleveland and New York cited increases in loan pricing. Some
Districts also mentioned customers taking steps to ensure that existing deposits are
covered by insurance and noted deposit withdrawals after reports of bank closings during
September. Liquidity problems in inter-bank markets along with a higher cost of funds
were reported in several Districts. As a result, Chicago reported that banks were
increasingly utilizing alternative sources of funds like the discount window and the
brokered CD market; and Kansas City noted that banks had become more cautious in
their liquidity management. Several Districts cited reports from businesses of difficulties
in obtaining credit. Agriculture and Natural Resources. Agricultural conditions remained
favorable in most of the Districts reporting on them. Corn and soybean harvests were
somewhat behind schedule in Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, and Kansas City. Heavier
precipitation slowed the harvests in some Districts, but aided agriculture in Atlanta,
Chicago, St. Louis, and Dallas. Drought continued to be a problem in parts of the Atlanta
District, and hurricanes damaged agriculture in parts of the Dallas District. Yield
projections slipped since the summer, but were still expected to be near historical
averages. Livestock producers faced tighter margins due to high feed costs and problems
with feed availability in some Districts. Most agricultural product prices fell in

 v
September. Exports continued to boost agricultural demand, while domestic demand
lagged for some commodities. Conditions for the energy and mining sectors were
positive, except for temporary damage to infrastructure from the recent hurricanes.
Disruptions to offshore oil drilling in Dallas were not as extensive as they were after
other recent major hurricanes. Drilling in the U.S. increased, especially for natural gas.
Coal prices were stable, while oil and natural gas prices declined. Even so, energy
operations looked to expand in Cleveland, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San
Francisco. In addition, Minneapolis reported new mining activity. Prices and Wages. Most Districts reported that cost pressures on prices had
eased, although a number of Districts noted that the costs of energy, raw materials, food,
and transportation remain elevated and margins were tight. Manufacturers in New York
said that they plan selling price increases; but, with activity weakening, fewer other
businesses anticipate price increases. Dallas noted that businesses facing softer demand
plan to pass cost reductions on to customers, and Cleveland cited a decline in fuel
surcharges as gasoline prices fell. However, respondents in Chicago and Dallas also
reported that they continued efforts to pass-through earlier cost increases. Philadelphia,
Dallas, and San Francisco noted increased discounting by retailers; Richmond reported
that retail prices were rising less quickly; and Kansas City reported only a slight rise in
retail prices. On the other hand, retailers in Chicago and Kansas City expect to raise
prices further in coming months, and some in San Francisco also anticipate that the cost
increases in train will lead to higher retail prices later this year and in 2009. Wage
pressures across the twelve Districts remained limited outside of skilled labor positions
that continue to experience high demand, such as the energy industry in Cleveland,
Dallas, and Kansas City.

 I-1 FIRST DISTRICT – BOSTON First District contacts indicate that the pace of activity softened in the third
quarter, and in some cases deteriorated sharply in September. Retail, manufacturing, and
business services revenues decelerated or declined relative to year-earlier and quarter-
earlier. Commercial real estate leasing was similar to the prior quarter but starting to
weaken. Residential real estate markets continue to slump. Contacts indicate that credit
tightness has brought about a halt to nonresidential construction and a scaling back of
other investments. Selling price increases were less prevalent than in earlier reports.
Most firms express heightened caution or concern about the outlook for the remaining
months of 2008 and for 2009. Retail. First District retailers cite mixed sales for August and September, but
even the majority of those with positive results on a year-over-year basis report a
softening. Retailers say that consumers are scaling back spending for the time being.
One respondent observed a shift toward the sale of private label items, possibly indicating
a more price-conscious consumer. Another noted that consumers are still willing to buy
for the right deal. Inventory levels continue to be tightly managed. Capital spending reports are
mixed, with many retailers scaling back on spending but a few continuing their projects
as planned; all contacted retailers cite caution on future spending. Several respondents
have invoked a “soft hiring freeze,” while others have recently reduced or plan to reduce
headcounts. While several First District retail respondents have not been affected directly by a
lack of credit, some report having difficulty financing equipment purchases or other
projects, while others report being able to borrow funds only very short-term. Contacts
who supply the housing industry note that contractors report having lines of credit pulled,
and in some cases are hesitant to start projects because of funding fears. Additionally, a
few retailers are facing escalated interest rates on the limited funding available. Overall, First District retailers are concerned and cautious in their outlook. Many
contacts express the view that improvement will not be seen for at least another six to
twelve months.

 I-2 Manufacturing and Related Services. Most manufacturers and related services
providers headquartered in the First District say that third quarter sales trends were either
in line with or somewhat weaker than earlier in the year. They express heightened
concern about the current and upcoming quarters, especially in light of tight credit and
what they perceive as deteriorating sentiment in the United States. Retail- and restaurant-goods manufacturers report that demand is faltering.
Producers of housing-related items say their sales remain subdued, with one indicating
that business has “hit a brick wall.” A firm that makes residential and nonresidential
building equipment reports a disappointing response to its September promotional event.
Manufacturers of office equipment and a provider of business information note that some
of their financial services customers have gone out of business, and that their remaining
customers are reducing or postponing purchases. In sharp contrast with other segments,
biopharmaceutical firms continue to experience strong double-digit revenue growth. Many manufacturers continue to voice concerns about elevated materials,
transportation, and fuel costs, although several now point to modest retrenchment for
selected inputs. About one-third report that they raised selling prices in the third quarter
or plan to do so in the fourth quarter. Several firms mention that weaker market
conditions are likely to constrain their ability to raise prices in the coming months. Close to one-half of the manufacturing and related services respondents report
they are likely to cut domestic headcounts by the end of 2008. Another one-quarter say
they will slow their rate of employment growth. Most contacts note that upward pressures
on pay appear to be abating, although one manufacturer reached a wage increase
settlement with its union that was higher than anticipated. Firms with largely salaried
workforces say that labor turnover has decreased considerably, and that labor availability
has improved as a result of layoffs at financial services and small biotech companies. About one-half of the contacts say they have decided to reduce their capital
spending in 2009. Most firms indicate that their operations have not been directly
affected by a lack of credit. However, many point to examples of other, mostly smaller
firms that have had difficulties, or they express concern about potential future
vulnerabilities. For example, one respondent notes that he is tracking cash flow more
closely than ever before; another mentions that his company would not be able to count

 I-3
on its foreign parent as a source of capital if conditions deteriorate more broadly; and a
third has new doubts about the availability of bank financing for a pending acquisition.
Although some manufacturers cite reasons for expecting their own firm to be in a
relatively stronger position in 2009 than the sector as a whole, almost all respondents
report that they are bracing for a tough U.S. economic environment next year. Selected Business Services. The majority of First District selected business
services contacts—most of whom are consulting firms this time—report weaker demand.
Demand from the airline, pharmaceutical, telecommunications, retail, and construction
industries is said to have slowed significantly. However, demand for consulting services
from the healthcare sector continues to be strong, notwithstanding overall economic
conditions. Looking ahead, half of business services respondents were optimistic—when
contacted in mid-September—about business growth in the fourth quarter; the other half
expected flat demand for their services. One advertising firm anticipated a double-digit
year-over-year decrease in demand in 2008. New England consulting firms were
expecting to grow next year but were concerned about how economic pressures would
affect their clients’ discretionary spending. Most business services contacts are not increasing prices, although consulting
firms feel upward pressure in compensation costs, especially for specialized researchers
and consultants. Headcounts are mostly stable or down among contacted firms. Looking
forward as of mid-September, the majority of respondents planned either to increase
headcounts slightly or keep them stable next year, but one firm expected to continue its
significant downsizing. Commercial Real Estate. All commercial real estate contacts report further
credit tightening. They indicate that even the most creditworthy borrowers have been
unable to obtain funding for profitable properties. Respondents also report that
construction loans are non-existent and construction activity has ground to a near halt. A
mutual bank has capped loan size in order to conserve capital, and is restricting funding
to refinancing and acquisitions of properties with reliable income streams by borrowers
who put in significant equity. A contact at an asset management firm reports that the
commercial real estate sales and development market is non-existent and not coming
back any time soon, until the credit crisis can be resolved.

 I-4 Leasing market conditions in the major urban centers of New England remain
relatively stable, but the mood is one of extreme caution and nervousness. Reports from
the Boston, Providence, and Hartford office markets all indicate that tenants are delaying
lease renewals to the extent possible. Landlords are looking to cut deals to secure tenants
and minimize losses. While some landowners continue to offer building improvements in
lieu of rent discounts to lure tenants, contacts now say that some can no longer borrow
enough money to take on such projects. Therefore, contacts predict that pressure on rents
will become more severe as landlords’ options diminish. Office absorption in Greater
Boston was negative in the latest quarter, and vacancy ticked up “a notch.” A Hartford
contact expects the supply of subleases to rise in the coming quarter. A southern Maine
contact sees tenants downsizing. Absorption also appeared negative in Rhode Island,
albeit more so in the suburbs than downtown. The outlook was characterized as either “grim” or “extremely uncertain.” Most
contacts expect commercial property markets to get worse before they get better. Residential Real Estate. The residential real estate sector continues to struggle
across New England, and contacts venturing a prediction said they anticipate no
noteworthy improvements in the next year. August home sales fell 14 percent and 17
percent year-over-year in Massachusetts and Rhode Island, respectively, and over 30
percent in Connecticut and Maine. This was the largest decrease in Connecticut since
1989. Condo sales dropped 19 percent year-over-year in August in Massachusetts, over
30 percent in Rhode Island and Connecticut, but only 4 percent in New Hampshire.
Contacts report a few cases of realtors trying to convince homebuyers not to back out of
nearly completed deals. In August, median home prices decreased 8 or 9 percent year-over-year in
Massachusetts, Connecticut, and Maine, and 15 percent in Rhode Island. Inventories in
Massachusetts are said to have come down to a more balanced level. Median condo
prices remained flat year-over-year in Massachusetts, while falling 4 percent and 7
percent in Rhode Island and Connecticut, respectively.

 II-1 SECOND DISTRICT – NEW YORK The Second District’s economy has weakened since the last report.
Manufacturers report that business activity declined moderately in September and early
October, while non-manufacturing firms report more widespread softening in activity and
anticipate cutbacks in employment levels. Both manufacturers and other firms report
some letup in price pressures, though a sizable proportion of manufacturers plan to
increase selling prices in the months ahead. Consumer confidence has recovered somewhat since the last report, though the
latest survey data were collected prior to much of the recent financial sector turmoil.
Still, retail sales were moderately below plan in September, though inventories were said
to be at or near desired levels. There has also been some pullback in tourism activity in
New York City. Most residential and commercial real estate markets have continued to
weaken since the last report; real estate contacts note that it is too early to gauge any
potential fallout from the recent financial turmoil. Finally, bankers report slowing
demand for home mortgages and consumer loans, tightening in credit standards, and
higher delinquency rates on loans—especially home mortgages. Consumer Spending. Retail sales were said to be moderately below plan in
October, with same-store sales running 1 to 5 percent below a year earlier. New York
City continued to out-perform the rest of the region in terms of sales gains. Inventories
are reported to be at or near desired levels generally, and prices are reported to be steady
to up moderately. Consumer surveys indicate some recovery in sentiment: the
Conference Board’s survey of Middle Atlantic residents showed confidence rising
modestly in August and September after slumping to its lowest level on record in July;
similarly, Siena College’s survey of New York State residents shows some rebound in
confidence in the third quarter. In both cases, though, most of the surveys were
completed prior to the mid-September financial turmoil. Tourism activity in New York City has shown some signs of softening since the
last report. After climbing above 90 percent in August, Manhattan’s hotel occupancy rate
retreated noticeably in September, based on preliminary figures, slipping below
comparable 2007 levels. At the same time, room rates rose less than the seasonal norm

 II-2
and were up 6 percent from a year earlier, compared with a gain of 8 percent in August
and 9 percent in July. Moreover, a number of major hotels indicate that advance
bookings—mostly for October and November—have weakened noticeably. Separately,
Broadway theaters report that both attendance and total revenues were up roughly 6
percent from a year earlier in September, which is a slightly larger increase than reported
for August. Construction and Real Estate. Housing markets in the District have generally
weakened since the last report. Virtually all contacts emphasize that there has been little
activity in recent weeks and that it is too early to gauge the impact of the recent financial
crisis on the market; there were frequent mentions of both buyers and sellers being in a
“wait and see” mode. A contact monitoring New Jersey’s residential construction sector
reports that both new home sales and new construction activity were exceptionally weak
in August and that prices have continued to decline, with builders increasingly offering
steep discounts. The inventory of homes on the market remains fairly high, though two
contacts note that many sellers are discretionary and would take their homes off the
market before reducing the asking price substantially. A number of contacts in northern
New Jersey estimate that single-family home prices are down 20 to 25 percent from their
peak levels; one contact notes somewhat steeper declines in prices for townhouses and
condos. Housing markets on New Jersey’s Gold Coast (near Manhattan), where both
multi-family development and apartment sales and prices had been showing some
resilience, are reported to have weakened recently. New York City’s co-op and condo market also showed signs of softening in the
third quarter: prices were still reported to be up slightly from a year earlier, but lower
than in the second quarter. Moreover, sales activity weakened noticeably, and the
inventory of unsold units, though still fairly low by historical standards, was up an
estimated 35 percent from a year ago. Manhattan’s rental market was steady to
somewhat softer in September: on average, rents were running 4 to 5 percent lower in
September than a year earlier, while the inventories of available rental units and the
vacancy rate have been relatively stable. Commercial real estate markets in the New York City area have also weakened
noticeably. In Manhattan, leading brokerage firms report that office vacancy rates

 II-3
climbed about ½ point in September and were up for the quarter as a whole. Asking rents
retreated but were up modestly from comparable 2007 levels; however, an industry
expert notes that asking rents are overstating actual market rents, due to both the mix of
available space becoming more upscale—with financial firms pulling back—and
landlords becoming increasingly willing to negotiate and offering more concessions.
Suburban office markets also showed some softening during the third quarter, though to a
lesser extent than in Manhattan; asking rents have generally remained stable outside New
York City. Finally, an expert on Manhattan’s hospitality industry notes that hotel
development has slowed: developers that have yet to begin physical construction are
largely unable to get financing to go forward and most such projects are being curtailed.
Currently, no new developments are being started. Other Business Activity. New York State manufacturers report that business
activity weakened moderately in September and early October. Contacts report some
decline in new orders but steady employment levels. Manufacturers report some letup in
price pressures, though close to half of those contacted plan to increase their selling
prices in the months ahead. While a large number of manufacturers report tightening
credit conditions and increased borrowing costs, more contacts say that their own
borrowing needs have diminished than increased. General weakness is also reflected in
goods distribution: a trucking-industry contact reports that this pre-holiday season is
shaping up to be the weakest in a long time. Credit availability is not reported to be a
major issue, and truckers are getting some relief from declining diesel prices, with few,
thus far, scaling back fuel surcharges. However, these positive industry factors are more
than being offset by the general falloff in business. More generally, non-manufacturing
firms in the District report widespread deterioration in general business conditions and
declining business activity; a growing proportion also indicate recent job reductions, and
a majority now expect job cutbacks in the months ahead; these firms’ capital spending
plans have also weakened fairly dramatically. Non-manufacturing firms report continued
price pressures, but a declining proportion plan to raise their selling prices in the months
ahead. In contrast with manufacturers, contacts at non-manufacturing firms indicate
somewhat increased borrowing needs, on balance.

 II-4 Financial Developments. Small to medium-sized banks in the District report
fairly widespread weakening in demand for consumer loans and residential mortgages,
but no change in demand for commercial mortgages and commercial and industrial loans.
For all loan categories, respondents indicate a tightening of credit standards—particularly
in the residential mortgage category. Respondents state an increase in the spreads of loan
rates over cost of funds in all loan categories except consumer loans, where they report
no change. Finally, bankers report no change in delinquency rates for commercial and
industrial loans but increased delinquencies for all other loan categories—most
noticeably in the residential mortgage category, where nearly a third of bankers indicate
higher rates and just 6 percent report lower rates.

 III-1 THIRD DISTRICT – PHILADELPHIA Business conditions in most sectors in the Third District softened from August to
September. Manufacturers, on balance, reported a very slight increase in new orders but a
steady rate of shipments. Retailers generally posted month-to-month and year-to-year
declines in sales, as did motor vehicle dealers. Bank loan volume has been nearly flat in
recent weeks. Residential real estate sales and construction activity continued to fall.
Commercial real estate leasing and construction activity have slowed. Services sector
firms generally indicated a slowing pace of business. Reports of increases in input costs
and output prices were somewhat less widespread among business contacts in September
than they were in August. The outlook among Third District businesses is generally not positive. Although
manufacturers surveyed in early September forecast increases in business activity during
the next six months, contacts in other sectors do not expect improvement. Retailers
expect a difficult holiday shopping period. Auto dealers see no signs that sales will pick
up soon. Bankers anticipate slow loan growth and weakening credit quality into next
year. Residential real estate agents and home builders expect sales to continue to remain
slow until the latter half of 2009. Contacts in commercial real estate expect leasing and
construction activity to decline during the next several quarters. Manufacturing. Third District manufacturers polled in early September reported
a very slight increase in new orders and a near steady rate of shipments, on balance,
compared with August. Around one-third of the manufacturers surveyed noted increases
in those measures and just over one-fourth reported decreases. The slight positive balance
of results among firms polled in September was a marked improvement over the negative
balance in reports received from area manufacturers earlier this year. Firms with export
business continued to see growth in demand for their products, and some firms noted that
previously off-shored work “is returning from Europe and China.” In contrast, firms
producing building materials and construction equipment continued to see declining
demand. The outlook among Third District manufacturers surveyed for this report is
positive, on balance. Nearly one-half of the manufacturers contacted in early September

 III-2
expect new orders and shipments to rise during the next six months, and about one-tenth
expect declines — around the same ratio of positive to negative opinion as reported in
August. Area manufacturers have boosted capital spending plans slightly since last
month, on balance, although some respondents noted that “cash flow issues” and
“restrictive bank lending practices” are limiting expansion in activity. Retail. Most of the retailers contacted for this report indicated the customer
traffic and sales fell in September compared with the previous month and year. Some
discount stores have experienced increased traffic and sales, although even in this
category many stores have had declining sales. Retailers selling luxury items and higher-
price merchandise have also posted recent sales declines, a change from the relatively
stable or rising sales they had earlier this year. Other types of consumer spending have
fallen in the District. Contacts in the lodging, travel, and restaurant industries generally
reported significant declines in business since the last Beige Book. The outlook among
Third District retailers is not positive. As one retailer phrased it, “The holidays are going
to be ugly.” Auto dealers in the region reported a continuing downward sales trend in
September. Sales fell compared with the previous month and year for dealers selling both
domestic and foreign makes. Inventories were above desired levels but have not been
growing, as dealers have been taking delivery of fewer vehicles. Finance. Total outstanding loan volume at Third District banks has been nearly
flat in recent weeks, according to bankers contacted for this report. There has been a
slight gain in real estate loans, but personal and business lending has been level to down
for many banks. Most of the banks contacted for this report said that business loan
demand was softening. Although most of the surveyed banks were “actively looking for
credits” among potential business borrowers, recent consolidation affecting banks in the
region has led to some interruption of loan marketing efforts at those institutions.
Contacts in the region’s financial services sector indicated that deposit growth has
generally been holding up, although some banks noted a temporary increase in
withdrawals by depositors following news reports of bank closings elsewhere in the
country. Bankers indicated that nondeposit sources of funds have become more costly
and less readily available. Contacts in residential real estate financing indicated they have

 III-3
had no difficulty funding residential mortgages with good credit quality and low leverage
ratios, but contacts in commercial real estate financing said the availability of funds has
declined sharply. Looking ahead, bankers expect loan growth to remain slow, and they
expect some deterioration in credit quality in the current quarter that will continue into
next year. Real Estate and Construction. Residential real estate activity in the Third
District continued to weaken in September. Residential real estate agents reported that
sales of existing homes continued on a downward trend compared with a year ago, and
home builders continued to see falling sales of new homes. However, builders have been
able to reduce inventories by cutting production and boosting incentives to promote sales
of completed houses. One real estate agent said that most recent sales have been
“nonelective,” necessitated by changes in sellers’ or buyers’ personal circumstances.
Contacts in residential real estate expect the decline in sales and construction to level off
sometime during the winter, but they do not expect activity to pick up until late next year,
and they expect the recovery to be modest. Commercial real estate firms indicated that construction, leasing, and purchase
activity have been trending down since the summer. Rents have been nearly steady,
although concessions have increased somewhat. Commercial real estate contacts reported
that the number of firms putting off plans to increase space has risen, although they noted
that in most markets in the region “the supply-demand balance is intact” and is expected
to remain so unless firms in the region make large cuts in employment. However, many
contacts expect commercial construction activity to decline significantly during the next
several quarters. Services. Service-sector firms generally reported easing in growth or declining
levels of activity in September. Some business services firms indicated that their client
firms were stepping up efforts to reduce costs by cutting back on their uses of outsourced
services. Firms providing personnel services noted that their business has weakened as
employment in the region has begun to decline. The outlook among area service firms
has weakened since the last Beige Book. Some consulting and technology firms said they
expected more demand for their services from companies looking for ways to streamline
operations and reduce costs, but most business services firms expect that maintaining

 III-4
current rates of activity or expanding their business during the next several quarters will
be “much tougher than normal,” as one contact said. Prices. Reports of increases in input costs and output prices have declined
somewhat since the previous Beige Book. Firms in the region continued to note pressure
on their profit margins from high energy and raw material costs. They also reported rising
prices for petroleum-based products and metals. Retailers have stepped up discounting,
and many are planning to promote low-cost items for gift-giving in the upcoming holiday
season.

 IV-1 FOURTH DISTRICT – CLEVELAND Overall economic activity in the Fourth District has weakened since mid-August.
Factory output and steel shipments softened. Residential construction remains very slow,
with no improvement expected through 2009. Most commercial builders told us that
business has been stable. Sales by District retailers were characterized as flat to
declining, while reports from auto dealers indicate that purchases of new cars have
declined sharply. The commercial credit market tightened, and consumer lending was
flat. Energy production was steady to increasing. And the market for freight transport
services declined. On net, reports show a slight drop in employment levels, with wage pressures
limited to energy producers. Staffing firms saw a small increase in the number of job
openings, primarily in health care and professional business services. Most
manufacturers and construction firms reported that prices for raw materials either held
steady or moderated slightly. Manufacturing. Output at District factories was stable to lower during the past
six weeks. Reports of declining production were attributed primarily to weakness in the
auto and construction industries. On a year-over-year basis, a majority of our contacts
said that production was slightly down. Manufacturers anticipate that production will be
maintained at current levels or weaken during the upcoming months. Capacity utilization
was at or below normal levels. Steel producers and service centers reported shipping
volume was flat to down, which they attributed to a downturn in the auto and
construction industries. The strongest end users for steel are energy and capital
equipment producers. In general, our contacts believe market conditions for steel will
change little or weaken slightly in the upcoming months. District auto production
showed a significant increase in August, rebounding from seasonal plant closings in July
for new model year retooling. In terms of year-over-year comparisons, District auto
production fell sharply, with domestic makers reporting steeper declines. Capital spending remains on plan; however, the share of respondents who
anticipate increasing capital expenditures going into 2009 has declined since our last
report. Half of our respondents who accessed credit markets told us that they

 IV-2
experienced tighter controls and higher interest rates. Most manufacturers commented
that the prices they paid for raw materials had flattened out or declined. Moreover,
significantly fewer respondents raised their product prices than reported earlier in the
summer. Looking forward, a majority of our contacts expect inflationary pressures to
remain steady or diminish. On net, employment levels decreased slightly, and wage
pressures were contained. Manufacturers anticipate little hiring in the near future. Real Estate. Residential builders reported that new home sales continue to be
very slow. On a year-over-year basis, sales are steady to down. Looking forward,
builders are not expecting any industry turnaround through 2009. Further, we heard
several comments that banks are imposing significantly tighter credit standards on
homebuilders and buyers. Little change in materials prices was noted, and list prices on
homes are reported to have dropped slightly since our last report. Inventories of new
unsold homes declined. Subcontractors are readily available at very competitive rates.
General contractors and subcontractors reported reductions in staff levels and no wage
pressures. Most commercial contractors told us that business has been reasonably stable
during the past six weeks, and they believe that it will remain so through 2009. Backlogs
are relatively strong, and inquiries have been steady to increasing. Several contractors
commented that credit is becoming more restrictive; nonetheless, financing is available.
The rate of increase in the prices of building materials is moderating, though fuel
surcharges remain high. Contract pricing outside of materials costs remains stable.
Workforce levels were largely unchanged, and no wage pressure was reported. Consumer Spending. In general, District retailers reported that August sales
were flat to declining on a month-over-month basis across all industry segments.
Looking forward, most respondents believe sales will remain relatively weak. Reports
from auto dealers indicate that purchases of new cars have declined sharply over the past
six weeks, while used car sales are flat to slightly down. Purchases of SUVs and trucks
were characterized as poor. Dealers are very concerned about lower sales volume in the
coming weeks. Retailers report that vendor prices have remained stable, with the
exception of increases for paper and food products. In response, retail sellers of paper
products passed through increases to their customers. Capital spending remains on target,

 IV-3
with few revisions planned in the upcoming months. For the most part, staffing levels at
retail stores have not changed; however, we heard many reports of auto dealers cutting
back on their sales and support staffs. Wages remain stable in the retail sector. Banking. Demand for business lending has been flat to down. Reports of
increased demand were generally attributed to customers tapping existing lines of credit.
Commercial loan pricing is increasing across the board. On the consumer side, loan
demand, including home mortgages, is flat to slightly down, with interest rates holding
steady. In general, regional banks are continuing to constrict the availability of credit—
especially to commercial borrowers, while community bankers do not foresee much
further tightening of underwriting standards. Reports showed that delinquencies at
community banks are flat to down, while regional banks are experiencing an upward
trend especially for commercial and residential real estate loans, HELOCs, and credit
cards. A majority of our contacts said that core deposits have been steady to increasing.
However, some community bankers commented that they are losing depositors to large
banks which are paying higher rates on CDs. The spread between lending and deposit
rates at community banks are steady or have widened a few basis points. At the same
time, spreads at regional banks are under pressure due to higher rates paid on time
deposits. Staffing levels were stable, and no wage pressure was reported. Energy. Energy production has been steady to increasing during the past six
weeks, with most of our contacts expecting production levels for coal, natural gas, and oil
to expand during the upcoming months. Reports indicate that the prices received for oil
and natural gas fell significantly, while coal prices were stable. Materials and equipment
costs remain at elevated levels, especially for petroleum-based inputs and steel. Capital
expenditures were on plan, with little change expected during the next few months. We
heard several reports of tightening credit markets; however, only one of our respondents
sees it as a serious issue at this time. There has been a slowing in hiring by most energy
companies from the pace seen earlier in the year; however, a slight pick-up is expected in
the near future. Wage pressures remain an issue due to competition for skilled labor. Transportation. Freight transport service companies experienced an overall
decline in shipping volume since our last report. Company officials told us that the auto,
consumer products, and housing industries are primarily responsible for the drop-off.

 IV-4
Volumes are expected to flatten out, with little pick-up anticipated during the next several
months. Several contacts commented that fuel prices have declined recently, and their
declines are reflected in reduced fuel surcharges. Capital expenditures remain on target
but are at low levels for most companies. Little change in capital spending is expected
during the upcoming months. For the most part, hiring was limited to driver turnover,
and any wage increases fell within industry norms.

 V-1 FIFTH DISTRICT– RICHMOND Overview. Business contacts indicated that, on balance, Fifth District economic
activity weakened towards the end of August and through September. Retail sales and
manufacturing activity slowed across most of the District while services firms expressed
concerns about the future. One respondent noted reduced credit availability for local
retailers. Although export volumes remained strong, activity at District ports cooled a bit
as contacts noted some fall off in shipments. Residential real estate activity continued to
be weak in most of the District as national economic and financial uncertainty lowered
demand for new mortgage lending. Commercial lending also cooled as credit standards
continued to tighten, and commercial leasing activity was sluggish, although vacancy
rates changed little and rents were mostly stable. Meanwhile, hiring activity contracted
across the board. Some input cost pressures remained for manufacturing firms, but
overall wage and price pressures abated across District manufacturing and service-sector
businesses. Retail. Retail executives and store managers reported that sales slumped in
recent weeks, particularly for big-ticket items. The store manager at a chain discount
retail establishment in central North Carolina echoed other contacts when he told us
gasoline shortages in his region were keeping many shoppers home during the week. An
executive at a hardware chain in central Virginia told us that the contraction in sales at his
stores had quickened in recent weeks. In addition, the manager of a department store in
an upscale mall outside the Washington, D.C., beltway said that business was down
dramatically—as much as 12 to 15 percent since our last report. In contrast, a large
department store manager in central West Virginia said his store's sales growth was
"holding up pretty well," although sales through his government contracts were down
slightly. According to a retail spokesperson in central Virginia, local companies that
have long-standing relationships with lenders cannot get lines of credit to purchase
merchandise for next spring; small retailers are "just petrified." Furniture, appliance, and
automobile dealers across the District reported declining sales. Retailers cut back on new

 V-2
hires and wage growth slowed in the last four weeks. Retail prices grew somewhat less
quickly since our last report. Services. A contact at a community services organization in central North
Carolina expressed concern about the effects of recent financial events spreading to both
his and other businesses in the region. Executives at financial services businesses in
central Virginia, northern West Virginia, and Baltimore, Md., said their clients were
nervous, but most contacts said they were not seeing outright panic. One financial
services contact described it as, "Everybody's on the edge of their seats." At healthcare
organizations, contacts saw little change in customer demand in recent weeks, but were
concerned that continued upheaval in financial markets would lead to increases in unpaid
bills or a reduction in elective surgeries. A business-campus executive said his plans for
expansion have been "shelved." Services firms trimmed payrolls and wages continued to
grow about on pace with our last report. Price growth was contained at services
businesses. Manufacturing. District manufacturers reported that activity contracted further
with broad weakness across shipments, new orders, and employment. A manufacturer at
a North Carolina textile plant reported that business at his firm was very slow, noting that
his patrons were pessimistic and their customers (retailers) were extremely cautious.
Likewise, a manufacturer of housing goods in North Carolina said that business had
slowed even further as his customers had trimmed inventories considerably. A furniture
maker in North Carolina told us that he had experienced the worst business conditions for
residential furniture in 40 years and that the outlook for commercial office furniture was
very bleak because of the industry’s reliance on financial institutions as clients. Cost
pressures remained but were less widespread this month. A producer of housing products
in North Carolina reported that he had not incurred additional increases in raw materials
prices over the past month. He pointed out, however, that his company was only able to
pass on minimal price increases to customers and therefore had not passed on the 10-15
percent jump in input prices of recent months. Activity at Fifth District ports cooled somewhat in September. Retail imports for
the upcoming holiday season were below year-ago-levels at the District’s largest
container port, and other imports were reported to be “down across the board.” Export

 V-3
volumes remained strong but contacts noted some fall off in shipments, especially for
lower end commodities – such as grains and scrap materials – due in part to elevated
shipping surcharges. Finance. Residential lending activity remained soft across most of the Fifth
District in recent weeks. Contacts in Richmond, Va., Charlotte, N.C., and Hilton Head,
S.C., reported steady but subdued levels of new mortgage activity as home “purchase
demand stabilized at a very low level,” while lenders in Charlottesville, Va., and
Greenville, S.C., noted further weakness in demand for mortgage initiations. Contacts
mentioned that a brief flurry of refinancing activity occurred in Virginia and the
Carolinas, though activity quickly reverted back to a tepid pace after a sudden rise in
interest rates. Credit standards tightened a bit further as institutions followed new FHA
guidelines. Credit quality varied; some lenders reported higher quality applicants while
others noted lower quality as “realtors are bringing anybody in.” In commercial lending, recent activity was stable to weaker. Contacts cited a
general “uneasiness” that contributed to “less aggressive lending” practices. Credit
standards continued to tighten – some contacts noted that informal guidelines were
becoming policy, more due diligence was being exercised for new borrowers, and
collateral requirements had increased. Reports on credit quality were mixed. One
contact noted improved borrower quality resulting from more intense loan scrutiny, while
others observed increased stress on the balance sheets of their business borrowers.
Several lenders reported that credit quality was holding steady, but they were “watching
it like a hawk.” Real Estate. Real estate contacts continued to report weak activity in housing
markets across the District. Most contacts reported very slow home sales with a few
citing the national financial and economic situation as the reason. A Richmond, Va.,
Realtor told us that his housing market had become “extremely” slow with only a few
buyers due to the uncertainty of the economy. The Realtor also noted that foreclosures
were on the rise. Likewise, an agent in Greensboro, N.C., said that his housing market
had been “hit really hard” due, in part, to the deteriorating financial condition of a large
insurance company in his city and a large local bank. He told us that sales were down
“tremendously” in all price ranges. In contrast, an agent in the Washington, D.C., area

 V-4
reported “steady” sales, with good activity in the middle-priced condominiums market.
House prices slipped a bit in several areas of the District. Turning to commercial real estate, leasing activity was sluggish across most of the
Fifth District, especially in the Washington, D.C., metro area. Agents in Maryland,
Virginia, North Carolina and South Carolina reported generally soft markets across all
property types, but a contact in West Virginia noted pockets of healthy activity. A
Washington, D.C., agent specializing in Class B office space saw firmer demand – partly
from tenants moving down from Class A space. Vacancy rates were mostly unchanged,
although reports indicated an uptick in vacancy for smaller blocks of office and retail
space in the D.C. market as some tenants moved to home offices. Rents were stable
across much of the District, but contacts in Washington, D.C., noted some downward
pressure. Sales activity was slow to “non-existent” in Roanoke, Va., Raleigh, N.C.,
Charlotte, N.C., and Columbia S.C., while commercial property prices were steady. In
recent weeks, new construction was limited to smaller specialty-use properties, and
contacts reported hesitancy in their markets as “people are putting the brakes on” deals
because “there is so much unknown right now.” Tourism. Reports on tourist activity varied since our last survey. Along the
coast, contacts in the Outer Banks of N.C., Virginia Beach, Va., and Myrtle Beach, S.C.,
told us that bookings were weaker compared to our last report and to a year ago.
Contacts attributed the softness to Tropical Storm Hannah, which reduced bookings in
the first full weekend of September, and then to the “Ike Spike” (gas price hike after
Hurricane Ike). They also indicated that economic uncertainties this month had taken a
toll on tourism. Looking ahead, a hotelier in Virginia Beach, Va., described expectations
for the next six months as, “not pretty.” On a brighter note, contacts at mountain resorts
in Virginia and West Virginia reported stronger bookings than a year ago, which they
credited to group reservations, warm and early fall weather, and regional attractions. Temporary Employment. Fifth District temporary employment agents reported
lackluster demand for temporary workers in recent weeks. The low demand for workers
came from agencies’ inability to recruit clients as well as the uncertainty and slowdown
of the economy. A Raleigh, N.C., agent anticipated a small increase in demand for
workers in the coming weeks due to the desire of many companies to increase their

 V-5
headcount before the end of this calendar year. Middle management, IT, administrative,
customer service, sales, and certain specialty skills were those most highly sought from
industries such as professional services, pharmaceuticals, and retail. Agriculture. Recent weather conditions allowed Fifth District farmers to make
steady progress in small grain preparation and harvesting activities. In Virginia, the corn
harvest progressed quicker than expected due to the generally dryer weather and lower
than average yields. The corn harvest in North Carolina was going strong throughout the
state, while winding down in South Carolina. In addition, the apple harvest was seventy
percent complete in Maryland, and farmers in Virginia and West Virginia were preparing
for the soybean harvest which was in fair to good condition. Hay stocks in Virginia were
reported to be short and cattlemen were considering other grazing and feeding options.
In some cases, cattlemen were culling their herds in order to compensate for the shortage
of feed. In contrast, cattle conditions in West Virginia were rated as mostly good with
pasture conditions reported to be in fairly good shape.

 VI-1 SIXTH DISTRICT – ATLANTA Summary. Sixth District contacts reported that economic activity weakened
further in September. Banking and business contacts indicated that credit conditions
tightened, and businesses reported that their ability to obtain financing had become
increasingly difficult. Labor market conditions weakened further in most sectors, and
consumer spending slowed. Residential real estate contacts noted that sales remained at
low levels and construction declined. The increase in the number of foreclosed properties
was putting downward pressure on home prices in some District markets. Commercial
contractors noted lower activity and an increase in project cancellations. Most
manufacturing contacts reported reduced production levels. Tropical storms improved
agricultural conditions in much of the District, but the energy infrastructure suffered
damage that curtailed the supply of petroleum and related products to some markets. By
most accounts, cost pressures on businesses eased over the month. Consumer Spending and Tourism. Retail sales weakened across the District
during September. Purchases of big-ticket items, including furniture, were especially
sluggish. Auto sales declined, and several contacts reported that sales were lower than a
year earlier. In general, the retail outlook for the upcoming holiday season was subdued. Tourism activity remained mixed in the District. The region continued to attract
international visitors, which helped offset weakness in domestic business and leisure
travel. There were several reports of discounting by hotels and cruise lines. Real Estate and Construction. Reports from homebuilders and Realtors
indicated that new and existing home sales remained weak. However, several contacts
noted that activity, although well-below year-earlier levels, was relatively stable in
September relative to August. Reports on inventories varied across the District, while
home prices continued to decline by most accounts. Contacts noted that bank-owned
homes were putting significant downward pressure on home prices in some District
markets. According to our contacts, the outlook for residential sales and construction
activity over the next several months remained subdued, but further significant
weakening is not expected.

 VI-2 Most District commercial contractors continued to note declines in activity.
Projects were being postponed or cancelled because of funding constraints and weak
economic conditions. Several contacts noted that the amount of sublease space available
rose modestly. Overall, commercial contractors anticipated that development activity
would slow further. Manufacturing and Transportation. Most manufacturing contacts reported that
production levels remained low and new orders were below year-earlier levels. Reports
also indicated that the number of export orders declined in September, reversing the trend
of recent months. Many contacts continued to report reductions in employment and
hours. Trucking contacts reported lower shipments of retail, automotive, and
construction-related goods, but noted gains in shipments of coal, minerals, farm products,
and chemicals. Manufacturing contacts expect activity to remain close to or fall below
current levels over the next six months. Banking and Finance. Most banking contacts in the District reported that credit
conditions were tightened and the volume of business and consumer lending has
declined. Restricted access to consumer credit is said to be affecting sales of homes,
autos, and other big-ticket items. Banks noted that loan-to-deposit interest spreads were
widening and underwriting standards have become very conservative. Bank liquidity
challenges were reported to remain a serious concern. Employment and Prices. Business contacts reported that labor markets
continued to weaken in September. Employment in most sectors declined across the
region. Retail contacts indicated that holiday-related hiring is expected to be weaker than
last year. Temporary employment agencies noted an increase in the number of applicants
who had recently been laid off from other jobs. Short-term hurricane-related job losses
were significant in southern Louisiana. Business contacts noted that price pressures had eased for both raw materials and
finished goods. However, elevated costs of fuel, food and utilities continued to strain
household budgets. Agriculture and Natural Resources. Tropical storms improved agricultural
conditions in much of the District. However, extreme drought conditions remained in
Georgia and Tennessee. Citrus growers reported concerns over weakening prices

 VI-3
because of higher orange juice inventories and weaker consumer demand. Poultry
producers noted continued strong foreign demand. However, production growth was
reported to have moderated as domestic consumption has slowed. The Sixth District’s energy infrastructure, a major source of the country’s crude
oil imports, production, and refining, was negatively affected by Hurricanes Gustav and
Ike. Although long-term damage to energy infrastructure is expected to be modest,
electricity outages and lengthy delays in returning to operations contributed to significant
short-term declines in oil production and refining. This led to shortages of gasoline and
petrochemicals in some areas of the District.

 VII-1 SEVENTH DISTRICT – CHICAGO Summary. Economic activity in the Seventh District weakened in September,
and contacts reported heightened concern about the economic outlook. Consumer
spending declined and labor market conditions remained weak. Residential construction
continued to decline and nonresidential construction to slow. Overall, manufacturing
moved lower, although activity varied by sector. Credit conditions tightened further.
Cost pressures from material and energy prices remained elevated, while wage pressures
continued to be low. The crop harvest was off to a slow start, but yields generally
appeared in line with historical averages. Consumer spending. Consumer spending declined in September, as households
continued to tighten their budgets and trade down to less expensive brands. Accordingly,
discount stores saw small increases in sales, while retailers in areas such as home
improvement and clothing experienced declines. Similarly, a contact in the fast-food
industry reported slightly higher-than-expected demand. Light vehicle sales declined,
although demand for more fuel efficient vehicles, especially among passenger cars, held
up better. Several dealers cited higher sales due to General Motor’s end-of-month
incentives; these incentives also resulted in some reduction in elevated light-truck
inventories. Auto contacts also reported that consumers were concerned about the cost
and availability of credit, and that this had resulted in a decline in credit sales. Business spending. The pace of business spending slowed from the previous
reporting period. Several contacts reported delaying or postponing hiring plans or capital
spending projects given the high level of uncertainty surrounding the economic outlook.
Others noted that they have been carefully monitoring expenditures and receivables,
relying more on maintaining existing equipment than purchasing new capital and paying
down debt instead of spending financial resources. However, this sentiment was not
uniform—notably, capital expenditures by manufacturers of heavy machinery continued
unabated. Labor market conditions in the District were little changed, and continued to be
mixed by sector. The demand for skilled labor in manufacturing, healthcare, and some
professional services remained strong, and a contact in agriculture noted that labor was
more difficult to hire for this year’s harvest. In contrast, employment in the automotive

 VII-2
and financial services industries continued to decline, although some financial contacts
reported that they were trying to recruit workers who had last their jobs at other firms.
Lastly, staffing firms reported a decline in demand for their services given hesitancy by
clients to engage in longer-term contracts. Construction/real estate. Construction activity remained sluggish in September.
Residential construction continued its steady decline. Project delays and cancellations
persisted and credit remained tight for new developments. Increases in foreclosures were
cited by contacts as an impediment to sales of non-foreclosed homes and in reducing the
inventory of new and existing unsold homes. Mortgage originations remained at low
levels due to tight credit standards and a slight increase in mortgage rates in late
September after a decline earlier in the month. However, contacts noted a slight increase
in activity among first-time home buyers due in part to the tax credits included in the
recent housing bill. Nonresidential development and construction continued to slow.
Contacts cited modest improvement in infrastructure spending but ongoing weakness in
retail and industrial construction. Furthermore, contacts noted an increase in vacancy
rates for retail properties and a rise in office sublease space. Cancellations and delays of
commercial projects were again reported as the availability and cost of financing
continued to be of concern. Manufacturing. Manufacturing activity in the District slowed in September.
Activity weakened slightly in the domestic steel industry. Demand continued to be soft
for medium- and heavy-trucks and for manufacturers with close ties to housing, such as
construction equipment and materials and home appliances. Aviation manufacturing
contacts noted a negative impact from the Boeing strike as well as some recent softening
in demand. However, demand for heavy machinery used in sectors such as oil and gas
extraction, mining, and agriculture remained strong. Manufacturers of pharmaceuticals
and energy infrastructure and related products also reported strong activity. In addition,
export-oriented industries continued to perform well. Exporters noted that demand had
shifted from Europe to developing countries whose terms of trade with the U.S. remained
favorable. Automakers reported further declines in sales in September, and contacts
noted some pending plant closings in the District.

 VII-3 Banking/finance. Credit market conditions in the District tightened in September
as liquidity was impaired by concern over increasing credit risk. Banks reported that
access to funds in inter-bank and deposit markets had been limited in recent weeks,
leading to increased utilization of alternative sources of funds including the discount
window and the brokered CD market. Furthermore, banks reported increasing their cash
holdings and shortening the maturity of their assets as a contingency against deposit
withdrawals following reports of bank closings elsewhere in the country. This, in
combination with ongoing de-leveraging was further reducing credit availability.
Accordingly, some non-financial contacts expressed reservation over the future
availability of bank credit lines. Other financial market participants reported that
increases in volatility and credit risk were boosting borrowing spreads in short-term
money markets and in the markets for longer-term debt, even for investment-grade
companies. Liquidity was also poor in the secondary markets for commercial and
residential mortgages. Several contacts reported increasing difficulty and higher costs of
obtaining funds through the commercial paper market. Higher credit costs at the
financing arms of automakers were making it more difficult for dealers to obtain credit to
finance inventories. Prices/costs. Despite recent declines in spot markets, contacts in various
industries again cited elevated input costs from various metals, food, and energy. Several
contacts mentioned higher utility costs and fuel surcharges. In contrast, the price of steel
and scrap metal declined. However, a contact noted that the lengthy period of high steel
prices had pressured many customers’ profit margins. More generally, pass-throughs of
higher costs to downstream prices continued, with some greater impact now being seen
on prices in retail trade. Wage pressures remained limited outside of skilled labor
positions that continue to experience shortages. Agriculture. The District harvest started slowly, lagging behind last-year’s pace
by two to three weeks. Farmers remained concerned about the potential impact of frost on
the yields of replanted soybeans. Corn and soybean prices declined, but volatility
remained high over uncertainty about how this summer’s floods and late planting would
affect the harvest. Early reports about the harvest indicated that corn and soybean yields
were in a range close to average. Heavy precipitation in September helped crops mature,

 VII-4
but also contributed to relatively high levels of moisture in harvested crops, requiring
additional outlays to pay for drying. Cooperatives began to buy 2009 crops; however, few
farmers were willing to sell at quoted prices. The spreads between futures and cash prices
for crops were higher than in the past due to expected increases in transportation costs.
Contacts suspected that demand for crops stalled during the summer as prices hit nominal
highs and world demand slowed. In addition to crops, prices for milk, hogs, and cattle
also fell.

 VIII-1 EIGHTH DISTRICT – ST. LOUIS Summary. Business conditions in the Eighth District have continued to
deteriorate since our previous report. Manufacturing activity continued to decline, as did
activity in the services sector. Home sales continued to decrease, while activity in
commercial construction remained mixed. Total loans at a sample of small and mid-sized
District banks decreased slightly during the three-month period ending in mid-September. Manufacturing and Other Business Activity. Manufacturing activity has
continued to decline since our previous report. Contacts generally cited weak product
demand and higher input costs as causes of reduced business activity. A few
manufacturers reported plans to open plants and expand operations in the near future,
although a larger number of contacts reported plans to close plants and reduce operations.
Firms in plastic product manufacturing and a small automobile manufacturer announced
plans to open new facilities in the District and hire additional employees. Contacts in the
steel manufacturing and machinery manufacturing industries reported plans to expand
existing facilities and operations. In contrast, firms in the animal
slaughtering/processing, apparel, appliance, automotive parts, electrical equipment,
fabricated metal, plastic products, and truck transportation manufacturing industries cited
declining demand and reported plans to lay off workers and decrease operations. The District's services sector continued to decline in most areas. Firms in the
medical, information, financial, and truck transportation services industries cited weak
demand and announced plans to reduce their workforce. A firm in business support
services announced plans to close a facility in the District. In contrast, a contact in truck
transportation services announced plans to expand facilities and hire additional workers.
A contact in health care services announced plans to move executive employees into the
District and hire additional workers. Retailers reported that sales volume remains fairly
constant, but that consumers have shifted to lower-priced products. One major auto
dealer will close operations in the District and another dealer filed for bankruptcy. Auto
sales were slightly up from a year ago for some dealers, particularly among those offering
customer incentives and rebates. Small cars continued to sell well, but there was slower
demand for trucks and large sport utility vehicles.

 VIII-2 Real Estate and Construction. Home sales continued to decline throughout the
Eighth District. Compared with the same period in 2007, August 2008 year-to-date home
sales were down 16 percent in St. Louis, 20 percent in Memphis, 22 percent in Little
Rock, and 24 percent in Louisville. Residential construction also continued to decline
throughout the District. August 2008 year-to-date single-family housing permits fell in
nearly all District metro areas compared with the same period in 2007. Permits declined
37 percent in Little Rock, 40 percent in Louisville, 42 percent in St. Louis, and 57 percent
in Memphis. Commercial construction activity remained mixed throughout the District. One of
the Memphis area’s largest commercial contractors reported a record level of committed
projects for 2009. A contact in central Arkansas whose firm specializes in general
commercial construction reported that the firm’s backlog has decreased from 12 to 6
months as projects have begun to dry up. A contact in St. Louis reported that the
industrial real estate market is stable and that developers are not overbuilding. Contacts
in Memphis reported that the industrial vacancy rate has remained steady largely because
of the lack of new industrial construction so far this year. Banking and Finance. Total loans outstanding at a sample of small and mid-
sized District banks decreased 1.0 percent in the three-month period from mid-June to
mid-September. Real estate lending decreased 1.5 percent and now accounts for 73.5
percent of total loans. Commercial and industrial loans decreased 0.8 percent, accounting
for 16.9 percent of total loans. Loans to individuals, accounting for 5.1 percent of loans,
increased 4.1 percent. All other loans increased 1.4 percent and accounted for 4.5 percent
of total loans. Over this period, total deposits at these banks were flat. Agriculture and Natural Resources. Recent heavy rains throughout many parts
of the District have delayed crop harvests. At the end of September, the overall corn,
soybean, sorghum, cotton, and rice harvests were behind their normal paces. Since our
previous report, overall crop conditions have deteriorated slightly. Yield estimates of
corn and soybeans in both Indiana and Kentucky, corn and rice in Missouri, and corn and
tobacco in Tennessee declined from August to September. Yield estimates for corn,
soybeans, sorghum, rice, cotton, and tobacco in the remaining District states that grow
those crops stayed the same or increased.

 IX-1 NINTH DISTRICT – MINNEAPOLIS Ninth District economic activity slowed since the last report. Decreased activity
was noted in consumer spending, construction and real estate, and agriculture.
Manufacturing was mixed. Increases in activity were noted in tourism, services, and
energy and mining. Labor markets weakened since the last report. Overall wage increases
were moderate, while prices for some products decreased. Consumer Spending and Tourism. Consumer spending declined since the last
report. September same-store sales at a major Minneapolis-based retailer were expected
to have decreased 2 percent compared with a year ago. An apparel retailer based in
Minnesota noted that recent slow mall traffic was hampering sales. Two restaurants and a
coffee shop recently went out of business in St. Cloud, Minn. A representative of an auto
dealers’ association in Montana noted that vehicle sales have slowed, particularly among
SUVs and trucks with lower gas mileage. In addition, some dealers noted that customers
were having difficulty obtaining credit. A Minnesota auto dealer noted that September
sales were down 20 percent from a year ago. In a late September e-mail survey of District
business contacts, about half of retailers noted that sales decreased recently, while 30
percent reported increases. In contrast, traffic at a Minneapolis area mall improved in August and September.
A mall manager in Bismarck, N.D., reported solid sales in August and September. Retail
sales were up in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan and Fargo, N.D., in part due to
Canadian shoppers. Tourism activity was up slightly from a year ago; however, spending was soft in
some areas. A bank director noted that late summer and early fall tourism conditions in
northern Minnesota were solid. A South Dakota tourism official reported that visits in
September were up about 2 percent compared with a year ago, although camping and
retail spending were soft. Restaurant and hotel usage in southwestern Montana were on
par with last year, but overall tourism-related spending was lower. A Minnesota-based
travel agency is expecting weak business through the rest of 2008 because of slow
corporate and leisure travel.

 IX-2 Services. Activity in the services sector was up slightly since the last report.
According to the e-mail survey, 46 percent of service industry contacts reported recent
sales increases, while 32 percent saw decreased sales. Professional business firms were
the most optimistic, while architects and financial services firms were the most
pessimistic. Meanwhile, 24 percent of the respondents from financial services firms
reported less credit availability compared with 2 percent who reported increased credit
availability. Construction and Real Estate. Construction activity decreased since the last
report. According to the e-mail survey, 78 percent of construction industry contacts said
recent sales at their firms were down; 11 percent reported increases. A Minneapolis-St.
Paul commercial developer mentioned several large projects that were halted in mid
construction. Several contractors reported reluctance to offer bids due to uncertainty
about future materials prices. The home-building slump continued. The value of August
residential permits was down 15 percent and 36 percent, respectively, in Minneapolis-St.
Paul and Sioux Falls, S.D., from a year earlier. Overall real estate activity was slower. Among industry respondents to the e-mail
survey, 43 percent said recent sales were down and 14 percent said they increased, while
48 percent said credit was less available and none reported more credit availability. In
contrast, a commercial broker in Bismarck, N.D., said the market for office and industrial
space there remained strong. Residential real estate remained slow. Sales in most District
markets were down. However, pending sales in the Twin Cities at the end of September
were above year-earlier levels, and about level with two years ago. Manufacturing. Overall manufacturing activity was mixed since the last report.
A September survey of purchasing managers by Creighton University (Omaha, Neb.)
indicated increased activity in the Dakotas and decreased activity in Minnesota.
According to the recent e-mail survey, 41 percent of the manufacturing industry contacts
reported recent sales increases, while 38 percent saw decreased sales. Several lumber
mills across the District recently cut production due to decreased demand. Production is
down significantly at a Minnesota construction materials producer. In contrast, a
Minnesota machining company said, “Business is good and growing.” A Montana pipe

 IX-3
maker is expanding production due to increased demand from the energy industry. A
South Dakota mining equipment maker is adding production space. Energy and Mining. Activity in the energy and mining sectors increased since
the last report. Oil and gas exploration continued at a strong pace. Expansions of several
large wind farms are under way across the western portion of the District. Growth in the
mining industry continued since the last report; in Minnesota, a large ore-to-steel plant
broke ground and a planned copper mine might break ground next year. Agriculture. Agricultural conditions decreased from a year ago. Prices for hogs
and many District crops decreased from the last report. For most of the major District
crops, harvest is behind the pace of a year ago. However, solid yields and production are
expected although not as large as year ago levels. Employment, Wages and Prices. Labor markets weakened since the last report.
Minnesota’s unemployment rate reached 6.2 percent in August, the highest rate since the
mid-1980s. A Minnesota temporary work services agency noted that billed hours were
down about 15 percent in September compared with a year ago. A county in Minnesota
has eliminated more than 200 positions due to impending budget shortfalls. An airplane
manufacturer eliminated 100 jobs in Minnesota and North Dakota. A Minnesota
manufacturing firm related to the housing industry recently laid off 45 full-time
employees. Two Montana timber mills recently laid off about 35 workers each. The e-
mail survey showed that 24 percent of respondents expect to hire additional workers
during the fourth quarter, while 23 percent expect to decrease staff. Overall wage increases were moderate. A temporary work services agency noted
that employee wages were stable. According to respondents to a recent St. Cloud (Minn.)
Area Business Outlook Survey, 66 percent expect no change in employee compensation
over the next six months. Prices for some products decreased. Minnesota gasoline prices were down 55
cents per gallon from their peak in July, but were still 72 cents per gallon higher than a
year ago. Prices for copper and aluminum decreased during the past month. A Minnesota
restaurant owner noted that prices for beef, chicken and dairy were still at high levels.
While health insurance rates were up about 6 percent compared with a year ago, the

 IX-4
increase was smaller than the past few years. Winter heating bills in Minnesota are
expected to increase 10 percent to 15 percent.

 X-1 TENTH DISTRICT – KANSAS CITY Economic growth in the Tenth District slowed in September after posting stronger
growth in the previous survey period. Overall, consumer spending weakened and
expectations for future sales softened. Manufacturing production and orders received
declined modestly despite solid export activity. Residential and commercial real estate
activity slowed, partly due to worsening credit conditions. Bankers reported tighter credit
standards, lower loan demand, and weaker loan quality. The energy sector expanded and
agricultural conditions were favorable, despite lower commodity prices. Inflationary
pressures were more subdued as fewer manufacturers reported gains in input and finished
goods prices. Wage pressures eased amid softer labor markets. Consumer Spending. Consumer spending weakened in September and was
expected to ease further in coming months. Retail sales fell after a modest rise in the last
survey period. Store managers reported heavy traffic at discount retailers, while
department stores continued to struggle. Trucking companies noted lighter shipments as
retailers planned to stock less holiday merchandise. Auto sales leveled off after several
months of decline, partly due to aggressive incentive and discount programs. Auto
dealers noted an uptick in used car sales, especially for fuel efficient models. Auto
dealers also anticipated further tightening in credit conditions that would dampen sales.
Tourism activity slowed as vacation travel waned and hotels reported fewer business
travelers. Air travel remained strong in Denver, but passenger traffic slowed in other
District markets. Restaurants noted fewer patrons. Manufacturing. Manufacturing activity declined modestly after rebounding in
the previous survey period. Production of durable goods held steady, while output fell at
plants producing non-durable goods. Orders, shipment volumes, and order backlogs
declined, stabilizing inventory levels. Export activity remained solid. One District
contact reported a lack of shipping containers for perishable goods. Some plant managers
reported delivery disruptions due to Hurricane Ike. Expectations for future factory
activity dropped sharply as manufacturers anticipated further slowing in orders. Capital
spending plans were largely unchanged although several agricultural equipment
manufacturers announced future plant expansions.

 X-2 Real Estate and Construction. Residential and commercial real estate activity
slowed in September. The residential housing market remained weak despite a brief
summer uptick in sales. Prices have declined in markets not heavily tied to agriculture
and energy. Inventory levels remained well above year-ago levels even though the
number of residential building permits continued to trend down. Real estate agents
reported more demand for lower priced homes, especially from investors who were
interested in buying rental properties. Tighter credit conditions were expected to further
hamper sales as the market enters a seasonal slowdown in activity. While mortgage
originations for home purchases declined, District contacts reported that the number of
borrowers refinancing their mortgage loans, either for cash-out or to lower their monthly
payments, rose in September. Commercial real estate activity slowed further as the
number of sales dropped despite modest price declines. Increased equity requirements
and more difficulty accessing credit meant some construction projects were placed on
hold or cancelled. Rental rates stabilized, but were expected to decline due to an
anticipated rise in vacancy rates. Absorption rates declined further and remained below
year-ago levels. Banking. In September, bankers reported lower loan demand, tighter credit
standards, and weaker loan quality. Demand fell for all major loan categories, with
commercial real estate and residential real estate loans showing the greatest declines.
Nearly three-fourths of bankers reported tighter credit standards for commercial real
estate loans, up from half of respondents in the previous survey. Almost half of
respondents reported tighter standards for commercial and industrial loans, up from a
quarter in the previous survey. Banks also reported some tightening of standards for
consumer and residential real estate loans, though not as much as for commercial loans.
Assessments of current loan quality were weaker than in the previous survey, and banks
were also more pessimistic about future loan quality. Bank deposits increased, and a few
banks noted that inflows of funds under the FDIC insurance limit were making up for
outflows of funds above the limit. When asked about the recent financial turmoil, most
banks said the crisis had caused them to become more cautious in their lending and
investment and liquidity management.

 X-3 Energy. Energy activity strengthened further in the survey period, even with
lower energy prices. The number of active drilling rigs in the District rose to a record
high in September, driven by greater exploration in New Mexico. Energy demand was
expected to strengthen with the winter heating season. Producers expected drilling
activity to hold at elevated levels in the coming months. Wyoming coal production was
up in September, as well as year-to-date. Energy companies reported that financing
remained available, but shortages of equipment and qualified workers persisted.
Expansions in bio-fuels production slowed with lower gasoline prices and relatively high
crop prices. Agriculture. Agricultural conditions remained favorable in September. The corn
and soybean harvest has begun and initial reports indicated above average yields. The
harvest, however, was behind schedule due to late planting that delayed crop maturity.
Winter wheat planting was progressing on schedule. Exports of U.S. beef and pork rose,
but high feed costs squeezed profit margins for livestock operators. Agricultural loan
demand rose further with high input costs. The funds available for loans held above year-
ago levels. Farm income expectations and capital spending plans moderated with crop
prices dropping below summer highs. Farmland values held steady. Wages and Prices. Since the last survey period, price pressures have lessened
and wage pressures eased. Fewer manufacturers reported price increases for both raw
materials and finished goods and expectations for future price increases waned. Still,
most plant managers reported that input prices remained well above year-ago levels.
Retail prices rose only slightly, but were expected to increase further in the coming
months. Agricultural producers expanded their operating loans to pre-pay higher input
prices. Restaurants planned to raise menu prices in response to higher food costs. Fewer
firms expected to hire workers and most did not anticipate raising wages in light of
weaker labor markets. The labor market remained tight, however, for skilled jobs in
manufacturing and energy firms, as well as minimum-wage positions in the leisure and
hospitality industry.

 XI-1 ELEVENTH DISTRICT – DALLAS The Eleventh District economy slowed markedly in late August and September.
Many businesses were affected by temporary production disruptions caused by hurricanes
Gustav and Ike. In addition, softer demand and increased uncertainty caused some firms
to reduce investment and payrolls. Moreover, a number of contacts reported recent credit
market developments had led them to re-evaluate future plans amid slower growth
nationally and internationally. Outlooks were more pessimistic than in the last survey,
with respondents citing many “unknowns” on the horizon. Prices. Reductions in energy and commodity prices eased cost pressures in many
industries, and transportation expenses were less of a concern than in recent surveys.
Fewer firms reported pass-throughs, although several were still trying to recoup cost
increases from earlier in the year. Some respondents in industries with soft demand noted
recent cost reductions will be passed on to customers, and retailers were offering more
favorable promotions. Construction contacts said high costs remain a major issue, but
some expect costs to edge down as the number of projects ebb. Crude oil prices fell from $115 per barrel in mid-August to below $100 by the
first week of October. Natural gas prices also edged down, in part due to high inventory
levels. Despite a brief spike during recent storms, the national average price of gasoline
fell about 11 cents per gallon, and diesel about 24 cents, during the survey period.
Contacts expect soft demand for petrochemicals to lead to weaker prices for ethylene and
polyethylene in coming weeks. Labor Market. The labor market loosened slightly over the past six weeks, and
wage pressures were mild. While most District respondents said employment levels
remained steady, there were reports of layoffs in several industries, including primary and
fabricated metals, residential construction-related manufacturing and auto dealers.
Contacts said skilled financial employees were easier to come by, a result of mergers in
the financial industry. Staffing services firms said orders for direct hires were down,
although temp activity was holding up. Pockets of tightness remain, however. Labor shortages are prevalent in the energy
sector, and firms continue to steal workers from other industries. Some manufacturing

 XI-2
respondents still reported difficulty finding workers with highly specialized skills. Driver
shortages persist, although lower diesel prices were enticing some drivers and operators
to return to work. Staffing firms noted difficulty filling upper-level positions. Manufacturing. Many Eleventh District manufacturers reported interruptions in
business activity from hurricanes Gustav and Ike. In addition, the credit market squeeze
added uncertainty to company outlooks. Producers of residential construction products said new orders and shipments
continued to fall due to worrisome conditions in housing markets. One company had laid
off salaried workers for the first time in 20 years. Some respondents expressed concern
over builders’ ability to pay existing contracts with suppliers or renew lines of credit.
Metals producers said the falloff in demand had worsened recently, in part due to slower
growth worldwide. High-tech manufacturing respondents reported mixed conditions, although overall
production and new orders have declined slightly since the last survey. One contact noted
the market for memory chips weakened further due to the recent slowdown in the global
economy. The current financial situation is reflected in a more cautious business
environment, with the possibility of fewer orders from retailers for the upcoming holiday
season. Food product manufacturers said sales were solid, although there were reports of
temporary production cuts and export delays due to the storms. Specialized transportation
equipment firms said activity remained stable despite demand disruptions from clients
tied to the Houston Port. Orders for paper products were mixed. Refinery production in Texas and Louisiana was severely disrupted by the back-
to-back storms, as plants were forced to reduce output or shut down. Contacts say
damage was light, and all refineries but one are operating or restarting production. Still,
the storms left inventories at record lows, leading to spot gasoline shortages in the
southeast and on the east coast. Retail Sales. A combination of factors—weather disruptions, consumer
uncertainty and financial concerns—led to mostly weak reports from retailers. Sales of
consumer durables were down markedly according to contacts, and the back to school
season did not provide the usual bump. Discounters continued to fare better than most.

 XI-3
Respondents said food and gasoline sales remain the primary drivers, while sales of
discretionary items are flat to down. Outlooks were fairly pessimistic, yet outside of
storm-damaged areas sales are somewhat better in Texas than elsewhere in the country. Auto sales continued to fall, leading to high inventories, even for used cars.
Contacts attributed the weakness to heightened consumer uncertainty related to the
current financial environment. While down significantly from last year, truck and SUV
sales picked up slightly over the past six weeks, as low prices enticed some buyers.
Tighter credit conditions are making it harder for the marginal customer to get a loan, but
contacts said the primary problem is the lack of customers. Services. Demand for temporary staffing remained steady overall. Orders were
strong for workers in light industrial manufacturing, but had slowed for employees in
software/web services. Contacts said orders were down for workers in financial services
and auto manufacturing. Legal service activity continued to be concentrated in litigation
and bankruptcy work. Respondents said demand for legal services to support real estate
and financial transactions had declined sharply, but demand remained strong from the oil
and gas sector. Several respondents in the transportation services sector noted considerable,
although temporary, loss of business as a result of hurricane Ike. Intermodal
transportation contacts saw a rise in cargo volume last week as activity caught back up
after the closing of the Port of Houston. Overall, respondents were thankful the port was
closed for just one week, and suffered minimal damage. Railroad cargo volumes
continued to decline. The storms reduced cargo volumes of chemicals and petroleum
products, while construction materials and motor vehicles volumes fell dramatically—
which contacts attributed to weaker consumer demand. While business activity is
expected to remain fairly stable through year-end, outlooks reflected increased
uncertainty about the economic impact of the current credit market situation. Eleventh District-based airlines said demand was holding up, despite losses due to
Ike-related cancellations. Recent capacity cuts and increased fares helped bolster
revenues. While still elevated, the reduction in oil prices is starting to show up in more
stable fares at some companies.

 XI-4 Construction and Real Estate. Worsening problems in credit markets
permeated construction and real estate markets in the Eleventh District. The pace of new
and existing home sales continued to slow, as economic uncertainty kept many potential
homebuyers on the sidelines. Those deciding to buy found it much tougher to get
qualified. Contacts noted weakness in sales of higher-priced homes, as equity
requirements and interest rates for jumbo loans have increased significantly. While
inventories remain much lower than in other parts of the country, one builder said
foreclosures in Dallas are adding to the supply of moderate to higher-priced homes. On a
more positive note, realtors said relocations were spurring some demand, and values
appear to be holding up overall. The outlook for the housing market remains extremely
uncertain, but many noted the “bottom was in sight”. Contacts said apartment leasing
picked up in the third quarter, and rents were holding up in the face of national declines. Commercial real estate respondents said leasing activity for office and industrial
space declined sharply as businesses re-evaluate plans in the face of current uncertainties.
Sales of commercial properties continue to plummet, with one contact in the industrial
market saying closings had “hit the wall”. Lenders are increasingly wary of raising their
exposure to real estate, especially given the recent flurry in merger/consolidation activity
which may elevate acquiring banks’ shares of real estate loans on the books. Previously
funded projects in the pipeline are expected to keep commercial construction activity
solid, but there were reports that some early 2009 projects have been pushed back or
halted. Financial Services. Heightened caution was prevalent among financial services
contacts, although most still expect the effects of the current situation to be less severe
than in other districts. Lenders reportedly have become even more conservative since the
last survey—highly scrutinizing borrowers and enforcing strict underwriting standards.
According to some contacts, the cost of capital remains high, inducing lenders to widen
loan interest-rate spreads. Very few commercial real estate deals are getting done, with
only smaller, low-risk projects able to meet current standards. Contacts said consumer
lending is soft, although business lending remains fairly solid. While competition for new
deposits is tough, institutions saw an uptick in deposits recently, reflecting a flight to
quality from riskier investments.

 XI-5 Energy. U.S. drilling activity rose in recent weeks, with the average number of
active rigs above 2,000 for the first time since 1985. More than half the rise was
attributed to the Eleventh District. Activity continues to be focused on land-based
unconventional natural gas, despite the fall in price to $7.50 per thousand cubic feet.
Offshore oil drilling was disrupted by the hurricanes Gustav and Ike, but damage was
light compared to Katrina and Rita. While demand for oil has weakened, contacts say
long-run prospects for the industry have not changed. Agriculture. Conditions were mixed in the agricultural sector. Late summer
rains helped alleviate drought conditions in parts of the District, but strong winds, the
storm surge and severe flooding from Ike caused some crop damage and displaced a
substantial amount of livestock. While the storm’s impact should not be significant for
Texas overall, it is devastating for affected areas.

 XII-1 TWELFTH DISTRICT– SAN FRANCISCO Summary. Economic activity in the Twelfth District weakened further during the
survey period of September through early October. Retail sales were very sluggish on
net, and demand fell for most categories of services. Manufacturing activity slowed, but
sales continued to grow for agricultural products and natural resources. Activity in
District housing markets generally remained anemic, and demand for commercial real
estate weakened further. Contacts from financial institutions reported a decline in loan
demand and credit quality, along with a drop in credit availability. Upward pressures on
prices remained significant overall, due to the delayed influence of past increases in the
prices of energy and selected commodities. Wages and Prices. Despite some easing of late, upward pressures on prices
remained substantial. Prices on energy and selected commodities, including food
products and some raw materials, have come down from their recent highs. However,
these prices generally remained at elevated levels and continued to exert substantial
upward pressure on overall final prices, due to the delayed effects of earlier price
increases. Prices for many retail items were held down by extensive discounting, but
some contacts cautioned that pending increases have been working their way through the
supply chain and will reach consumers late this year and in 2009. Wage pressures eased further as the degree of labor market slack deepened.
Job cuts were reported across a wide range of industries, particularly in the
construction, finance, and real estate sectors. As a result, unemployment rose
throughout the District, and contacts noted that wages have been largely flat of late.
The primary exception is worker groups whose skills enable them to use advanced
technologies, for whom wage gains remained significant. Retail Trade and Services. Retail sales were quite sluggish and appeared to fall
during the survey period, despite the influence of the back-to-school shopping season.
Sales remained weak and inventories rose further for department stores and smaller retail
outlets alike. Discount chains continued to see stronger demand than traditional
department stores, as consumers switched away from high-priced items and curbed
discretionary spending; outdoor equipment such as camping gear was one bright spot, as

 XII-2
households gravitated towards low-cost vacation options. Sales for retailers of furniture
and household appliances continued to slide from already low levels, and unit sales of
gasoline fell further. Sales fell considerably for all types of automobiles, both new and
used, with reduced credit availability reportedly emerging as a significant constraint. Demand for services fell further compared with the previous survey period.
Health-care providers reported declining demand, with some medical centers noting a
significant drop in cash collectibles recently. Sales weakened for providers of
advertising, professional, and legal services, idling some workers and reducing capacity
utilization. Activity remained moribund for providers of real estate services such as title
insurance. Contacts noted modest declines in tourist activity in some major tourist
destinations in the District, such as Southern California and Las Vegas; the drop was
more significant in Hawaii and was accompanied by layoffs there. Manufacturing. District manufacturing activity slowed during the survey period
of September through early October. Although manufacturers of commercial aircraft still
faced an extensive backlog of orders, activity in that sector was sharply curtailed by an
ongoing labor dispute. Makers of semiconductors and other information technology
products continued to experience high rates of capacity utilization and moderate sales
gains, but signs of a softening in global demand have emerged. Demand for wood
products remained very weak, causing additional mill shutdowns. Activity at petroleum
refineries continued at low levels, and capacity utilization remained well below its
longer-term average. Capacity utilization also was very low among metal fabricators, for
whom demand has weakened substantially. Firms in most sectors reported limited capital
spending of late, with plans to hold flat or reduce spending during the balance of 2008. Agriculture and Resource-related Industries. Demand and sales for
agricultural items and natural resources continued to expand during the recent survey
period. Brisk sales were reported for most crops, propelled in part by strong export
demand. Demand remained solid for petroleum products, spurring further expansion of
extraction capacity. However, the recent decline in oil prices has reduced the viability of
some high-cost expansion projects, and the recent hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico
sharply curtailed capacity utilization for District companies with operations there. Real Estate and Construction. The District’s severe housing slump continued,

 XII-3
while demand for commercial real estate eroded further. Demand and sales remained
very weak for new and existing homes, and prices continued to fall. Foreclosure rates on
existing homes, which were already high in parts of Arizona, California, and Nevada,
rose noticeably in Utah and Idaho. Widespread availability of foreclosed homes at
bargain basement prices spurred sales of existing homes to exceed their levels from
twelve months earlier in some parts of California. Demand for nonresidential real estate
fell, and limited credit availability reportedly constrained property purchases and the
number and scope of projects that were underway in some areas. Vacancy rates on
commercial space rose in Las Vegas and other major metropolitan areas. Contacts noted
that the strongest construction activity by far was for public buildings such as hospitals
and schools. Financial Institutions. Lending activity and credit conditions weakened
noticeably during the survey period. Demand for commercial and industrial loans fell
further, and demand for new residential mortgages remained very weak. Credit
availability declined significantly as banks and other financial institutions faced rising
difficulties securing short-term funding. Contacts also pointed to higher delinquency
rates in all loan categories. Banks and customers are taking steps to enhance deposit-
insurance coverage of existing holdings by spreading deposits across multiple banks.

