National Summary The Beige Book ■ August 2017
Overall Economic Activity
Economic activity expanded at a modest to moderate pace across all twelve Federal Reserve Districts in July and
August. Consumer spending increased in most Districts, with gains reported for nonauto retail sales and tourism, but
mixed results for vehicle sales. Capital spending also increased in several Districts. Manufacturing activity expanded
modestly on balance. That said, reports were mixed regarding auto production, and contacts in many Districts ex-
pressed concerns about a prolonged slowdown in the auto industry. Both residential and commercial construction
increased slightly overall. Low inventories of homes for sale continued to weigh on residential real estate activity across
the country, while commercial real estate activity increased slightly. Activity in the energy and natural resources sector
was generally positive prior to shutdowns arising from Hurricane Harvey. Agricultural conditions were mixed overall,
with drought conditions reported in multiple Districts. Business and consumer loan demand grew at a modest pace in
most Districts, with a number of banks reporting rising competition from both other banks and non-bank lenders.
Employment and Wages
Employment growth slowed some on balance, ranging from a slight to a modest rate in most Districts. Labor markets
were widely characterized as tight. There were reports of worker shortages in numerous industries, most notably in
manufacturing and construction. Firms in the Atlanta, St. Louis, and Minneapolis Districts said that they had turned
down business because they could not find the necessary workers. Many Districts indicated that businesses were
having difficulty filling openings at all skill levels. In spite of the tight labor market, the majority of Districts reported
limited wage pressures and modest to moderate wage growth. That said, there were reports from firms in the Dallas
and San Francisco Districts that labor shortages were pushing up wages.
Prices
Prices rose modestly overall across the country. Input and materials costs generally increased, most notably for freight,
lumber, and steel. In contrast, movements in energy and agricultural commodity prices were mixed. A number of Dis-
tricts indicated that pass-through to downstream prices was limited, with increases in input prices exceeding gains in
selling prices. Home prices moved up overall, as low inventories put upward pressure on prices in many regions.
A Special Note on the Impact of Hurricane Harvey
Hurricane Harvey created broad disruptions to economic activity along the Gulf Coast in the Dallas and Atlanta Dis-
tricts, although it was too soon to gauge the full extent of the impact. Many firms and organizations in the affected
areas closed due to flooding. A fifth of the oil and natural gas production in the Gulf of Mexico was offline, and many
onshore producers in the Eagle Ford region temporarily stopped production. Harvey also affected fuel and petrochemi-
cal production, forcing fifteen refineries in the region to shut down temporarily and several others to operate at reduced
capacity. Some areas experienced gasoline shortages, and supply was expected to remain tight in the Southeastern
United States because of pipeline disruptions. Contacts in the Richmond District indicated that spot freight prices
jumped after the storm, as freight was being redirected around the country. The Port of Charleston expected increased
volumes in coming weeks as freight traffic is routed away from the Port of Houston. 1

Highlights by Federal Reserve District National Summary
Boston Chicago
Business reports indicated that revenues at most manu- Growth slowed to a modest pace. Employment, consum-
facturing and retail firms continued to expand modestly er spending, business spending, and manufacturing
to moderately. Staffing firms, however, cited revenue production all grew at modest rates, while construction
declines, which they blamed on limited labor supplies. and real estate activity increased slightly. Wages and
Prices were stable and wages were up very little. Resi- prices rose modestly. Conditions were little changed in
dential real estate markets were constrained by invento- the financial sector and worsened some in the agricultur-
ries. Respondents continued to cite a positive outlook. al sector.
New York St. Louis
Economic growth picked up to a moderate pace in recent Economic activity improved at a modest pace. Contacts
weeks, and labor markets remained tight. Input prices continue to hold a generally optimistic outlook for the
continued to rise moderately, while selling prices were remainder of 2017. District bankers continued to report
flat to up modestly. Housing markets strengthened, moderate growth in demand for new loans and a modest
whereas commercial real estate markets were steady. uptick in delinquency rates.
Philadelphia Minneapolis
Economic activity resumed a modest pace of growth, Economic activity grew modestly. Consumer spending
with trends improving for nonauto retail sales, new home was mixed, but tourism was having a good summer
construction, and nonresidential construction and leas- season. Manufacturing continued on an upward trend,
ing. Manufacturing growth softened and auto sales de- and residential construction saw growth that likely would
clined further. Other sectors continued to grow modestly. have been stronger if not for tight labor, which was hold-
On balance, employment and wages continued to grow ing back employment in general. Home sales lagged in
modestly, and prices resumed a modest pace of growth. most regions due to low inventories, and drought was negatively affecting farmers.
Cleveland
Business activity picked up to a moderate pace during Kansas City
the past few weeks. Manufacturers and construction Economic activity in the Tenth District increased modest-
contractors saw rising payrolls and wage pressures. ly. Manufacturing and other business services expanded
Higher wages were attributed to growing employee at a moderate pace, and energy activity continued to
turnover. Motor vehicle production trended lower at increase modestly. Consumer spending was mostly flat,
District assembly plants. The trucking industry was con- with modest growth expected. Agricultural conditions
cerned about the effect of electronic logging require- weakened, but at a slower pace, and farm income and
ments on freight capacity. farmland values remained subdued.
Richmond Dallas
The economy continued to expand modestly. Reports on Economic activity grew moderately. Activity in the energy
consumer spending and real estate and construction sector held steady, and contacts expected the rig count
were not as consistently positive. Manufacturers noted to stay flat or dip through year-end. Manufacturing output
stronger new orders, and ports and freight haulers were strengthened, and growth in retail sales accelerated, in
seeing increased volumes. Lending was up slightly while part due to a rebound in auto sales. Crop prices were
nonfinancial services firms saw moderate growth. Labor generally below breakeven levels.
markets improved moderately and prices rose modestly. San Francisco
Atlanta Economic activity continued to expand at a moderate
Economic activity rose modestly since the previous re- pace. Overall price inflation was flat, while upward wage
port. Labor markets remained tight but wage growth was pressures intensified and labor market conditions tight-
unchanged. Retailers, excluding auto dealers, noted an ened further. Growth in consumer and business services
increase in sales levels. Home sales increased and remained strong. Activity in the manufacturing sector
prices continued to rise modestly. Credit remained readi- expanded at a moderate pace. Activity in the residential
ly available for qualified borrowers. real estate sector remained robust. Lending activity expanded modestly. 2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Boston The Beige Book ■ August 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Business contacts indicated that economic activity in the First District expanded modestly to moderately through mid-
summer, with both retailers and manufacturers mostly reporting increases in revenues compared with a year earlier.
Most staffing firms, by contrast, cited revenue declines attributed to tight labor supply. Commercial real estate markets
were mixed across the region, with little change in leasing fundamentals and some loosening of commercial sales mar-
kets. Residential real estate markets in the region continued to experience increases in prices and declines in sales.
Most responding firms cited a positive outlook.
Employment and Wages aviation contact said they continue to feel strong down-
Despite labor supply falling short of demand in many ward price pressure from big customers despite record
cases, wage pressures continued to be modest. Retail- aircraft sales.
ers’ hiring plans were said to be in line with planned Retail and Tourism
store expansions and they cited “not much” wage pres- Retail contacts consulted for this round reported that
sure. All nine manufacturing contacts this round indicat- their most recent year-over-year comp store sales re-
ed that employment was flat or increasing. All but one of sults ranged from low single-digit decreases to low single
the manufacturers who commented on the ability to -digit increases. One contact noted that younger adults
recruit said that they were not having any trouble hiring tend to make more purchases online, leading to fewer in-
and replacing workers. Two manufacturing respondents store sales, and two contacts attributed recent sales
said they were forgoing cost-of-living increases this year. increases or decreases in part to changes in customer
Among staffing firms, all contacts reported high demand traffic. The outlook for the remainder of 2017 is positive.
for labor and tight labor supply. Demand for skilled labor
has been strong, but contacts said many job applicants A contact in the Massachusetts restaurant industry re-
fall short on requested training; some suggested that ported that restaurant revenues through June were up
clients needed to moderate their expectations. Likewise, about 3.6 percent from a year earlier. Restaurants in
low-skill labor supply has not met demand, with two firms tourist areas such as the Berkshires, Cape Cod, and
citing public assistance as a challenge to recruitment, Boston’s North Shore have experienced severe staffing
given the low wages in these positions. All responding shortages, especially those that have historically relied
staffing firms reported rising pay rates. on seasonal workers needing H2B visas. This labor shortage has had a negative effect on revenues in what
Prices is traditionally the high summer tourist season. There is
Prices were generally reported to be stable. Retailers also concern among many Massachusetts restaurant
reported that prices on most items remained steady. owners that the just-signed law “Further Regulating
Restauranteurs said that while there were some small Employer Contributions to Health Care” imposes sub-
price increases on food, some menu prices have gone stantial penalties on employers whose (non-disabled)
up more, in the 2.5 percent range. Manufacturing con- employees obtain health coverage through MassHealth
tacts mostly reported stable prices, and a manufacturer (Medicaid, CHIPS) or receive subsidized coverage
of dairy products said that pricing had been through the state’s health insurance exchange.
“exceptionally stable” in the last two years; a commercial A-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Boston
Manufacturing and Related Services office and industrial sectors were seen as restraints on
Of the nine manufacturing firms contacted, all reported leasing activity. However, a Portland contact noted that
sales in line with their expectations. Sales were up for demand for office space was also soft. Leasing funda-
seven respondents, while two reported changes near mentals were mostly flat across the region, with the
zero. Strong areas included commercial aviation and exception that office rents increased modestly in Provi-
semiconductors. One semiconductor contact reported a dence and rose slightly in Boston.
year-on-year increase in sales in the second quarter in Commercial real estate sales fell modestly in Boston and
excess of 30 percent but cautioned that semiconductors Portland and remained light elsewhere in the District.
are notoriously cyclical. A manufacturer of electrical Prices for premier office properties in Boston were stable
equipment described the last two years as an “industrial despite a modest decline in the number of interested
recession” and said that we are now in a recovery. buyers. Maine saw an uptick in retail vacancies and retail
Only one contact reported a major revision to capital property foreclosures. Throughout most of the District,
spending plans. The dairy firm said that capital spending investor demand for industrial properties remained ro-
was up more than 40 percent last year as they expanded bust, and banks bid aggressively to lend to industrial
alternatives to traditional dairy products such as almond buyers. At the same time, some banks required more
milk. A manufacturer of electrical equipment said that equity on loans for construction of new apartments. One
political pressure had led them to reduce off-shoring to new hotel project was proposed in the Portland area,
Mexico and China and to increase spending on factory which reportedly has enjoyed a strong summer tourism
automation. season. The outlook among contacts was mostly un- changed, and contacts were cautiously optimistic on
All respondents said the outlook was positive. A manu- balance.
facturer of test equipment said that uncertainty about the
federal budget and shutdowns was a cause for concern. Residential Real Estate Residential real estate markets in the First District contin-
Staffing Services ued recent trends of supply shortages and price increas-
Staffing services contacts in New England gave mixed es. For single-family homes, all areas but New Hamp-
reports on current revenue growth, with the majority of shire and Vermont reported moderate decreases in
firms seeing an overall decline year-on-year, which they closed sales (New Hampshire data refer to changes from
attribute in large part to difficulty recruiting candidates. June 2016 to June 2017; the other areas reported July-to
Skilled labor markets, particularly in health care and IT, -July changes). Pending sales generally increased. For
have been strong sources of revenue among contacts, condos, closed sales were down in Boston, Connecticut
buoying businesses more concentrated in these sectors. and Vermont. Persistent upward pressure on prices was
All respondents remained optimistic but said they were observed across the region, with median sales prices
less optimistic than three months ago. Most anticipate increasing in all states except Vermont for both single-
only slight improvement in revenue growth from this family homes and condos.
quarter to next. Low inventory prevails. On a year-over-year basis, all
Multiple firms cited the current political situation as a reporting areas experienced a sharp decrease in inven-
negative influence on hiring; health care reform was tory for both single-family homes and condos. A contact
singled out as a source of instability, as job applicants pointed out that varying rules across cities and towns
now seek employer-based coverage as their top job created regulatory difficulties for home builders.
benefit. All contacts said they are adapting to the tight-
supply landscape through targeted recruitment including Contacts expressed concern about the decline in sales,
an expanded online presence, a better referral process, noting that as prices increase, potential sellers become
active community engagement, and building stronger wary about finding new listings elsewhere and may be
relationships with job market candidates. less likely to list their homes. Nonetheless, some con- tacts expect the market to become more active with the
Commercial Real Estate prospect of rising interest rates. ■
Commercial real estate markets remained somewhat
mixed across the First District. Contacts reported that
leasing activity was very slow in both Hartford and Port-
land, modest in Providence, and moderate in Boston. In For more information about District economic conditions visit:
both Portland and Providence, limited inventories in the www.bostonfed.org/regional-economy A-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of New York The Beige Book ■ August 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Economic activity in the Second District has picked up somewhat since the last report, expanding at a moderate pace,
and labor markets have remained tight. Input prices continued to rise moderately, while selling prices were flat to up
modestly. Manufacturers noted a brisk pickup in business activity, while service-sector businesses reported more mod-
erate gains. Consumer spending expanded modestly since the last report, tourism picked up somewhat, and consumer
confidence has remained close to a cyclical high. Housing markets were somewhat stronger, though sales volume in
many areas has been restrained by a dearth of homes on the market. Commercial real estate markets were generally
steady. New residential construction activity has slowed slightly, while commercial construction has been flat. Banks
reported some tightening in credit standards on commercial mortgages.
Employment and Wages education & health, and leisure & hospitality noted mod-
The labor market has remained tight. One New York City est growth in selling prices, while those in other sectors
employment agency reports further strengthening in the indicated little change.
labor market, with brisk hiring in the usually slow sum- General merchandise retailers reported that prices have
mer months. However, a major agency in upstate New been steady, on balance, and New York City hotels
York and another downstate both characterize the mar- indicated little change in room rates. Broadway theaters,
ket as steady. Businesses across a broad array of indus- on the other hand, continued to report 10-13 percent
tries have been reporting widespread difficulty finding gains in ticket prices from a year earlier.
qualified workers—particularly in rural areas. Consumer Spending
Manufacturers reported that hiring activity has been Retailers reported that sales have been a bit firmer in
subdued and some have scaled back hiring plans for the recent weeks. One major chain reports that sales picked
months ahead. Businesses in the transportation and up and have been running ahead of plan in July and the
information sectors reported some pickup in hiring, while first few weeks of August. Similarly, retailers in upstate
those in retail trade and leisure & hospitality noted New York have seen some pickup in both traffic and
steady to slightly lower employment. Businesses in other sales in recent weeks. Inventories were generally report-
service industries report little change in staffing levels. ed to be in good shape.
Overall, wages have risen modestly, though contacts in Auto dealers in upstate New York reported that sales of
retail, education & health, information, and real estate new vehicles were steady at high levels in July and early
report more widespread wage hikes. One employment August and were up from comparable 2016 levels. Vehi-
agency maintains that employers have become more cle inventory levels have come down somewhat but are
negotiable on both compensation and required skill sets. still higher than desired. Used vehicle sales have been
Prices steady to up moderately, while prices have softened
As in the last report, businesses indicated that input somewhat. Retail and wholesale credit conditions were
prices rose moderately. Businesses in wholesale trade, characterized as being in good shape. B-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of New York
Consumer confidence in the Middle Atlantic states (NY, Commercial real estate markets have been mixed but
NJ, PA) has retreated from its multi-year high set during steady, on balance. The market for office space has
the spring but has remained at a high level. softened a bit in upstate New York and Long Island but tightened modestly in New York City. The market for
Manufacturing and Distribution industrial space, which had been tightening for quite
Manufacturers reported that business activity has ex- some time, appears to have lost some momentum. Avail-
panded at an increasingly brisk pace since the last re- ability rates were steady near multi-year lows in down-
port. Contacts in the transportation industry, however, state New York and northern New Jersey but edged
continued to report modest growth, while those in whole- down to new lows in upstate New York. Still, industrial
sale trade noted that activity was generally flat. Looking rents have continued to rise, running 8-10 percent above
ahead, manufacturers remained broadly optimistic about comparable 2016 levels.
the near-term outlook, while those in transportation and
wholesale trade expressed a more moderate degree of Single-family home construction has been subdued—
optimism. except at the high end of the market—while new multi- family development has slowed. While there continues to
Services be a good amount of multifamily construction in progress
Businesses in most service industries reported some throughout the District, new starts have slowed consider-
pickup in business activity. Contacts in both professional ably, except in northern New Jersey. Similarly, new
& business services and education & health services commercial development has largely ground to a halt,
noted modest increases in activity. Service sector busi- except in northern New Jersey, where new construction
nesses were generally optimistic about the near-term starts for both office and industrial space remain fairly
outlook, except in the leisure & hospitality industry. brisk.
Broadway theaters reported stronger than usual attend-
ance and revenues for the summer months. In New York Banking and Finance
City, while tourism has picked up somewhat, advance Small to medium sized banks in the District reported that
bookings for the months ahead have been softer. loan demand was steady overall but mixed by catego- ry—weaker demand for consumer loans and residential
Real Estate and Construction mortgages, no change in demand for commercial mort-
Housing markets across the District have been mixed gages, and higher demand for C&I loans. Bankers also
but, on balance, a bit stronger. Real estate contacts in noted a moderate decrease in refinancing activity. Some
upstate New York report that low inventories of homes tightening in credit standards was reported for commer-
on the market have restrained sales activity but have cial mortgages, but no change was indicated for other
driven prices to new highs, with homes often selling for loan categories. Contacts reported lower spreads of loan
above the asking price. Low inventories and rising de- rates over cost of funds for residential mortgages and
mand have also started to push home prices up in the C&I loans. Finally, banks reported steady delinquency
suburbs around New York City—except at the high end rates across all loan categories. ■
of the market, where there remains an excess supply.
New York City’s condo and co-op market has been
mixed; home prices have risen at a roughly 5 percent
annual rate in Brooklyn and Queens but have been flat in
Manhattan. Here too, an oversupply at the high end has
kept that segment of the market soft. Sales activity has
picked up, as sellers have cut prices, especially at the
high end.
Rental markets have also been mixed. In New York City,
effective rents have drifted down—face rents have been
flat, while landlord concessions have increased. Thus
far, these rising concessions have kept vacancy rates
from rising. In northern New Jersey and parts of upstate For more information about District economic conditions visit:
New York, rental markets have been fairly robust, with www.newyorkfed.org/data-and-statistics/regional-data-
rents rising steadily. center/index.html B-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia The Beige Book ■ August 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Aggregate business activity in the Third District resumed a modest pace of growth during the current Beige Book period
— a bit stronger than during the prior period — but reports were mixed by sector. Manufacturing, nonfinancial services,
new home sales, and tourism grew modestly; nonresidential construction and leasing appeared to grow slightly; nonauto
retail sales and new home construction activity exhibited essentially no growth; and auto sales declined modestly.
These trends were an improvement over the prior period for nonauto retail sales, new home construction, and nonresi-
dential construction and leasing; they were less positive for manufacturing and more negative for auto sales. On bal-
ance, employment, wages, and prices continued to grow at a modest pace. Overall, firms appear to anticipate continued
modest growth over the next six months with a somewhat larger percentage of firms expecting growth.
Employment and Wages Retailers and banking contacts generally noted no signs
Employment has continued at a modest pace of growth, of inflation, while homebuilders continued to report high
although reports of net additions to staff were somewhat lumber costs. Overall, existing home prices continued to
less than the prior period for both manufacturing and edge up with some variance across markets and price
nonmanufacturing firms. Average hours worked also categories.
dipped over the period for manufacturing firms but held Looking ahead one year, firms anticipate a 2.25 percent
steady among nonmanufacturers. increase in prices received for their own goods and
On balance, wage growth held steady at a modest pace. services — unchanged from one quarter prior. Firms
Staffing firms and other contacts generally reported also reported expectations of nearly 2.6 percent annual
steady wage growth and an occasional lack of labor inflation for consumers — a bit higher than last spring.
availability for specific jobs. In particular, Pennsylvania Manufacturing
staffing firms continued to note difficulties finding quali- On balance, manufacturing firms edged back to a mod-
fied, committed workers, while demand for labor contin- est pace of growth in general activity after nearly six
ued to grow. One staffing firm added to its own staff in months at a moderate pace. Firms reported somewhat
order to keep pace. slower overall growth of new orders and shipments than
Prices during the prior period; however, growth rates appeared
On balance, price levels rose modestly. Although reports to begin picking up late in the period.
were mixed, over two-thirds of the contacts responding The makers of paper products, chemicals, fabricated
indicated no change at all in prices paid and prices re- metal products, industrial machinery, and electronic
ceived. Prices appeared to hold firmer for raw inputs to products continued to note gains in new orders and
and intermediate goods from manufacturers, while fewer shipments; firms in the lumber and primary metal sectors
firms reported increases for prices received for their own reported declines in activity.
goods sold. C-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia
Generally, manufacturing contacts continued to expect equity loan volumes were essentially flat. Commercial
growth over the next six months. The percentage of firms and industrial loan volumes declined again. Credit card
expecting future increases rose for general activity and volumes are highly seasonal — they grew at a modest
capital expenditures, and held steady for employment. rate during this Beige Book period, but at a somewhat higher rate in the comparable year-ago period.
Consumer Spending
As physical stores continued to struggle, nonauto retail Banking contacts tended to describe economic growth
contacts reported little change in sales, on balance — an as slow and steady. Several noted a small increase in
improvement over the modest declines of the prior peri- shale gas drilling activity; others pointed to gains stem-
od. In late reports from traditional malls, declining appar- ming from renewed global activity. On balance, loan
el sales pulled overall sales negative in June, although portfolios were considered healthy, with low delinquen-
remaining segments were up. An outlets operator report- cies and no significant signs of concern.
ed a summer resurgence and good back-to-school sales
through the current Beige Book period. Convenience Real Estate and Construction Homebuilders generally reported little change in a mar-
store contacts noted a “tough” July and a weak start to ket that has oscillated between slight growth and slight
August. decline in activity in recent months. The four weeks
Auto dealers throughout the region reported that the around Labor Day are typically slow for traffic and con-
slight year-over-year sales declines of the prior period tract signings. Production problems continued to include
had deepened to a modest rate during the current peri- labor availability, labor costs, and lumber prices.
od, although the level of sales remains high. Prices are Brokers in most major Third District housing markets
very competitive and manufacturers are providing signifi- continued to report modest growth of existing home
cant dealer incentives to move inventory. Dealers expect sales, but no increase of inventories. Several contacts
manufacturers to back off production next year. noted a pickup of second home purchases in vacation
Tourism held steady at a modest pace, although moun- areas, but this trend appears modest so far.
tain resorts appeared to make greater gains than the Nonresidential real estate contacts reported slight growth
shore locations this summer. Strong gains were reported in construction activity, which had been flat last period;
from the Poconos and from Amish country, while a Dela- individual markets do vary by sector and geography.
ware shore contact noted concerns about shorter stays Leasing activity also appeared to grow slightly, at best.
and more cautious spending, and Atlantic City’s July One contact reported that the industrial market was
casino revenues fell relative to July 2016. A Philadelphia holding up nicely, but that two spec buildings have taken
analyst noted that demand exceeded expectations, longer to lease up than has been the case recently.
locally and nationally, and that international tourism Contacts also reported that the Philadelphia office mar-
seems to have held steady. ket was getting tighter, with steady demand being met
Nonfinancial Services mostly by changing space utilization and shifting loca-
Service-sector firms continued to report modest growth tions within the region’s footprint rather than by new
in general activity for the period as a whole, but as with office construction. The rental market is shifting in favor
manufacturers, reports of sales and shipments began to of landlords. ■
strengthen late in the period. Expectations about future
growth have increased somewhat since the prior Beige
Book period and remained positive with nearly 60 per-
cent of the firms anticipating increased activity.
Financial Services
Financial firms reported modest growth of overall loan
volumes (excluding credit cards) — a bit faster than the
slight growth that had occurred during the prior Beige
Book period. Auto loans and other consumer loans ex- For more information about District economic conditions visit:
hibited moderate growth in loan volume. Commercial www.philadelphiafed.org/research-and-data/regional-
real estate and mortgages grew modestly, while home economy C-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland The Beige Book ■ August 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Aggregate business activity grew at a moderate pace in the Fourth District since our last report, an improvement from
the modest growth seen in the prior period. Labor markets expanded, with wage pressures reported primarily in the
construction, manufacturing, and energy sectors. Upward pressure on prices paid was prevalent in the construction
industry. Freight carriers and construction contractors increased billing rates and reported little pushback. Consumer
spending at brick-and-mortar establishments rose slightly, while new motor vehicle sales strengthened. Manufacturing
activity grew slightly overall, but production at District motor vehicle assembly plants trended lower. Nonfinancial ser-
vices firms saw moderate gains in activity. Year-to-date residential real estate unit sales stayed above year-ago levels
and selling prices were higher. Activity in the commercial real estate market remained elevated.
Employment and Wages few manufacturers and upstream oil and gas companies
District payrolls continued to expand, although at a slow- cited an upward trend in steel prices. Selling prices for
er pace than in the previous reporting period. Staffing products and services were stable on net. Construction
increases were notable in the manufacturing and con- contractors and freight carriers increased billing rates
struction sectors. In contrast, energy firms and brick- and and reported little pushback. Contractors attributed the
-mortar retailers described payrolls as flat. Several in- need to increase rates to rising labor and material costs,
dustrial products manufacturers filled openings that had and an increase in demand. Some freight carriers report-
previously been left vacant, or they created new posi- ed that they needed to offset higher labor costs and
tions because of rising demand and an improving out- additional equipment purchases associated with elec-
look for sustained business growth. Construction con- tronic logging requirements. Projections call for an addi-
tractors reported a shortage of experienced labor, mak- tional 500,000 off-lease motor vehicles in 2017 com-
ing it difficult to fill newly created positions. To be in pared to the number in 2016. This increase will drive
compliance with newly enacted electronic logging regula- down used vehicle prices, a situation which will likely
tions, freight carriers anticipate adding drivers in order to have an impact on new vehicle sales. However, OEM
maintain capacity. Wage pressures were felt primarily in incentives continue to rise and are reportedly as high as
the construction, manufacturing, and energy sectors in 15 percent.
response to employee turnover. Mid-year wage increas- Consumer Spending
es were widespread in most other industry sectors. Consumer spending at brick-and-mortar department
Prices stores rose slightly during the period, whereas revenue
Similar to the previous reporting period, upward pressure growth at specialty stores was characterized as flat or
on prices paid eased somewhat when compared to that lower. Contacts reported that revenue gains from online
of the second quarter. Construction contractors saw shopping have not yet offset declines from brick-and-
rising prices for lumber, concrete, and wiring products. A mortar operations. Retailers were satisfied with sales of furniture, food, and women’s apparel. Purchases of D-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland
electronics products remained soft. Year-to-date unit backlogs, though inquiries are beginning to show signs
sales through July of new motor vehicles increased of slowing. The highest demand was for commercial
about 3 percent compared to those of a year ago. Auto property development, including office buildings, and
dealers are concerned about above-normal inventories. public infrastructure projects. Office vacancy rates are
Customers are reportedly waiting for higher OEM incen- stable, and asking rents are slowly rising. A strong in-
tives. crease was reported in selling prices for office properties during the first half of 2017 compared to those of a year
Industrial Production ago. Reports indicated a slowing in the construction of
Overall activity in the manufacturing sector picked up multifamily housing, as lenders and investors are consid-
slightly during the period. Factors contributing to the ering pulling back from commitments to multifamily de-
expansion included strong demand for construction velopment projects. Apartment rental increases were
materials, rising activity in upstream oil and gas markets, described as moderate to strong.
and rising exports to China. The latter was attributed to
strong infrastructure spending in that country. In contrast, Banking
demand for consumer packaged products and capital Reports on commercial lending were more upbeat than
goods was weaker than expected. Year-to-date produc- in recent reporting cycles. Strongest demand was for
tion through July at District auto assembly plants de- CRE loans. Several bankers noted that customers have
clined more than 16 percent when compared to that of sufficient confidence in the current business climate to
the same period a year earlier. Much of the decline can self-finance capital projects. Skittishness related to the
be attributed to retooling for three next-generation vehi- political climate and rising competition from nonbank
cles. Even with the decrease in auto production, some sources were cited as factors holding back more robust
OEM suppliers reported satisfaction with their order loan growth. Consumer lending was largely stable. Pur-
books. Allocations of capital monies for plant expansion chase mortgages were in high demand, while auto lend-
and product development rose. Many of our contacts are ing softened. Bankers reported generally improving loan
bullish in their outlook for the economy. However, some quality. Loan application standards were little changed
have tempered their outlook during the past few months, other than some tightening in auto lending.
citing slowing demand from the transportation sector.
Reports through July indicated that the number of drilling Nonfinancial Services
rigs operating in the District increased significantly com- Freight volume expanded along seasonal trends during
pared with that of a year ago. Natural gas output remains the past couple of months and was relatively stable
at historic highs. Thermal coal production declined be- compared to that of the same period a year ago. Several
cause of reduced demand from a warmer-than-average contacts expressed concern about the effects of elec-
2016-2017 winter. tronic logging on trucking capacity.
Real Estate and Construction Professional and business services firms reported mod-
Year-to-date unit sales through July of new and existing erate gains in activity during the period. Strongest de-
single-family homes increased 1.5 percent compared to mand was seen by management consulting and software
those of a year earlier. The average sales price rose and IT services firms. Factors contributing to strong
almost 5 percent. A softening in the new-home market demand for the latter group include clients’ concerns
was attributed to rising list prices. Homebuilders cited a about cyber-security and data protection. ■
shift in buyer preference from homes in the move-up
price point categories to those in the lower price points.
One builder described this sudden shift as unusual.
Slightly higher interest rates were not seen as a deter-
rent for purchasing a house. Although demand has sof-
tened, estimates of single-family construction starts for
the first half of the year are more than 5 percent higher
compared to those of a year earlier.
Nonresidential real estate activity generally remains at
an elevated level. Building contractors reported strong D-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond The Beige Book ■ August 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
The Fifth District economy continued to expand at a modest pace, although reports from some sectors were a little more
mixed since the last report. Moderate growth in new orders and shipments was noted by manufacturing firms; ports and
trucking companies reported increased cargo movements. Retail sales were mixed but mostly flat in recent weeks while
tourism and travel activities were strong. Existing home sales declined slightly while new home sales and construction
were said to be up modestly. Commercial leasing increased at a slightly slower pace in recent weeks; reports on com-
mercial construction were mixed. Overall loan demand increased slightly as business lending was up modestly while
residential lending was relatively flat. Services firms indicated that revenues grew moderately. Labor demand strength-
ened moderately and prices increased at a modest pace.
Employment and Wages Manufacturing
Labor demand continued to strengthen moderately in On balance, manufacturing firms reported moderate
recent weeks. Compared to the previous report, employ- growth in new orders and shipments in recent weeks.
ment agencies noted slightly lower levels in new job Metal manufacturers continued to report improved busi-
openings; however, they anticipated a significant in- ness conditions, and computer and electronic equipment
crease during the upcoming fall recruitment months. firms noted a recent pickup in new orders. Additionally, a
Wage increases remained modest across all sectors, steel producer commented that business remained very
and a few firms reported increased wage pressures to strong with order backlogs above normal levels. Expec-
retain top talent in tight labor markets. Executives report- tations were generally optimistic for the next six months,
ed difficulty finding qualified cybersecurity specialists, as most producers anticipated modest increases in new
mechanics, accounting professionals, construction work- orders.
ers, agriculture workers, truck drivers, and customer
service agents. Ports and Transportation Cargo volumes at District ports remained robust since
Prices our last report and continued to increase modestly. Most
Overall, prices rose at a modest pace in recent weeks. ports were seeing growth that was in line with, or better
According to our most recent surveys, services firms than, expectations. However, one executive indicated
indicated that prices grew modestly, on balance. Manu- that new services initiated in June had not resulted in the
facturing input prices grew a modest rate and continued increase in activity he had anticipated. Growth in import
to outpace final goods price growth. Contacts throughout volumes continued to exceed that of exports. Remarks
the Fifth District specifically noted increases in prices for from trucking firm executives were unusually consistent
steel and scrap metal, fuel, and construction inputs, such as they reported moderate increases in shipments,
as lumber and dirt. Contracted trucking prices reportedly broad-based strength in demand, and very steady
rose moderately as capacity continued to tighten. growth beginning around April. One trucking firm execu-
Conversely, an architectural firm noted that increased tive suggested that he had “the luxury” of being able to
competition over bids was driving fees down slightly. turn down business. A regional airport in the District
Coal and natural gas prices were unchanged or margin- reported that air cargo shipments were up significantly
ally lower. over the year and there were no signs that this growth trend was trailing off. E-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
Retail, Travel, and Tourism construction remained limited throughout the District.
On balance, retail sales were flat to up in recent weeks, Reports from brokers in Virginia Beach and Columbia,
with some variation by segment. A home furnishings South Carolina said there were fewer new multi-family
store reported the largest improvement in sales in the developments taking shape and fewer sales in recent
past six to seven years, although margins were down weeks, while agents throughout North Carolina and in
due to discounting. Clothing sales were flat to slightly up, Charleston, South Carolina, central Virginia, and the
with considerable variability from month to month. Hard- District of Columbia said that demand is keeping pace
ware and home improvement stores saw strong sales for with new construction and new space is needed.
seasonal outdoor items, but slower growth for smaller- Banking and Finance
ticket hardware sales. An auto dealer in coastal South Loan demand grew slightly in recent weeks. Commercial
Carolina reported that sales had leveled off and that real estate and business lending picked up modestly,
inventories continued to build, so he expects manufac- overall, while residential real estate lending was little
turers to offer even more incentives in coming months. changed. A North Carolina lender said that recent
Tourism and recreation activities were strong in recent branch expansions and a rise in deposits provided addi-
weeks in coastal areas as well as the mountain attrac- tional capital and allowed them to increase commercial
tions in the District. A rafting and outdoor adventures and business lending. Interest rates were little changed,
business in West Virginia experienced a record July, on balance, as short term rates rose slightly while long
despite double-digit increases in many of their activity term rates were flat to somewhat down. Competition
prices. In contrast, a western Virginia outdoor recreation among banks intensified, particularly in the residential
facility reported a dip in July activity, but saw bookings mortgage market. A West Virginia lender reported seeing
picking up at a normal pace for September and October. secondary market mortgage lenders offering low and no
In coastal North Carolina, visitors were up relative to last down payment mortgage loans in an effort to combat the
year, despite a power outage in the Outer Banks, and flat demand. Historical credit quality metrics remained
restaurants and retailers were busy. Modest growth in strong and there were no reports of changes to credit
hotel occupancy was reported in western North Carolina standards.
as well as Washington, DC, although average daily rates
were mostly steady. Non-Financial Services According to our most recent survey, services firms
Real Estate and Construction indicated moderate revenue growth and expected de-
Residential real estate agents reported a slight seasonal mand to grow further over the next six months. Reports
decline in home sales and noted that buyer traffic re- from firms in the administrative, education, hospitality,
mained slow in recent weeks. Brokers reported a signifi- telecom, and warehousing services were the most con-
cant increase in first time home buyers, with one firm sistently positive. A civil engineering firm in Maryland
indicating that sixty percent of its sales were to first time noted an uptick in demand in recent weeks and expected
home buyers. Inventories remained low, and home pric- it to persist for the remainder of the year. There were
es continued to rise modestly. Average days on the fewer bidding opportunities reported for government
market remained at low levels; however, some contacts contracts, as federal agencies relied more on large,
noted slight increases due to the seasonal slowdown in single award agreements. ■
sales. New home construction and sales improved mod-
estly since the previous report.
Commercial real estate leasing rose modestly in recent
weeks, slowing slightly from the previously reported
pace. Industrial leasing transactions generally declined,
while retail leasing and sales remained strong. Office
leasing remained limited; however, a few brokers report-
ed an increase in office building sales. Vacancy rates
remained low across markets. Rental rates were stable
to increasing modestly, with reports of rising rate pres-
sure in the industrial market due to lack of inventory.
Commercial construction accounts were mixed. Realtors
reported more industrial warehouse construction and
noted an increase in speculative building, while office For more information about District economic conditions visit: www.richmondfed.org/research/regional_economy E-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta The Beige Book ■ August 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
According to reports from businesses across the Sixth District, economic activity expanded at a modest pace from July
through mid-August. The outlook among contacts remains optimistic as most expect slow and steady growth over the
remainder of the year. Businesses reported continued tightness in the labor market, though wage growth remained flat
for most types of jobs. Firms cited that non-labor input costs remained steady. Reports from most retailers indicated that
sales increased slightly while auto dealers noted soft sales activity. The hospitality sector continued to experience weak-
ening activity. Residential brokers and builders cited that sales of existing and new homes were flat to slightly up from a
year ago and home prices continued to rise modestly. Commercial real estate firms reported that demand continued to
improve and construction increased from a year ago. Manufacturers noted that activity pulled back slightly since the
previous report. Bankers indicated that credit continued to be available.
Employment and Wages nisms were losing their effectiveness, thus broad wage
Broadly, business contacts expressed that labor demand increases were expected in the near term. Some firms
continued to outweigh supply in fields such as infor- noted increased offerings of early retirement packages in
mation technology, construction, and healthcare. Con- an attempt to lower overall compensation costs (replace
struction industry contacts reported that the lack of avail- higher-paid, tenured workers with technology or lower-
able labor was still so severe that companies were turn- paid, entry to mid-level workers). Businesses continued
ing down business opportunities. The leisure and hospi- to report increases in starting wages to attract new hires
tality industry experienced notable net gains in payrolls for high-skill positions, but most contacts indicated that
across the region; however, contacts continued to de- these increases remained in the two to three percent
scribe challenges filling positions during the summer. range.
Some employers who rely on immigrant labor—either
directly or indirectly—continued to express concerns that Prices Non-labor input costs were stable and businesses re-
efforts to tighten immigration were having a tangible drag ported that pricing power remained constrained. Accord-
on the supply of labor. Turnover was mixed across the ing to the Atlanta Fed’s Business Inflation Expectations
region; however, any time turnover occurred, firms pur- survey, respondents indicated that year-over-year unit
sued opportunities to increase operational efficiencies by costs were up 1.7 percent in August and they expect unit
evaluating whether to fold one job into another, replace costs to rise 1.9 percent over the next twelve months.
position(s) with technology, and/or shift the salary to-
wards training and development of other employees. Consumer Spending and Tourism
Firms continued to implement various methods to attract District retail contacts reported that sales levels were
and retain top talent, often in lieu of wage increases. higher than expected in July. Retailers noted that back to
Contacts shared that in addition to offering flexible work school shopping and online sales helped boost overall
hours and locations, more vacation time, and training sales levels this period. Automotive dealers continued to
and education opportunities, they were increasingly report a slowdown in the momentum of auto sales from a
focused on social responsibility initiatives and support year ago.
systems to encourage work-life harmony. Some contacts In general, tourism and hospitality contacts in the District
indicated that these non-wage compensation mecha- reported that activity over the summer season was softer F-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
than expected, which they attributed to significant rainfall previous report, with about half expecting higher produc-
throughout the region. In most markets, hotel occupancy tion levels over the next six months.
achieved expectations; however, average daily rates
remained subdued. Many contacts noted that the outlook Transportation
for the remainder of the year should be in line or slightly Reports from District transportation contacts were little
below forecasts made earlier in the year. changed since the previous report. Ports continued to indicate strong growth in containerized, bulk, and break-
Construction and Real Estate bulk cargo. Total rail traffic remained flat. The declines in
Reports from District residential real estate contacts in shipments of grain, petroleum and petroleum products,
July signaled modest but continued growth. Builder and metallic ores, were mostly offset by increases in
reports on construction activity were mixed. Brokers and nonmetallic minerals, crushed stone, sand and gravel,
builders continued to report that home sales were flat to and coal. Year-to-date intermodal traffic, however, was
slightly up relative to one year earlier. The majority of up modestly. Logistics and freight forwarding contacts
contacts noted that buyer traffic was flat to slightly up cited further growth in e-commerce shipments.
and inventory levels were down from the year-ago level. Banking and Finance
Both builders and brokers continued to report modest Credit remained readily available for most qualified bor-
gains in home prices. Home sales expectations re- rowers. Some contacts reported mortgage activity
mained positive in July, with most brokers and builders slowed due to a limited supply of homes for sale and a
anticipating that sales would hold steady or increase decline in auto lending due to decreasing demand. Com-
slightly over the next three months compared to the year mercial loan activity was brisk and small businesses
-earlier level. Most builders continued to expect that used loan proceeds to refinance or expand their busi-
construction activity would match or exceed the current ness.
pace over the next three months.
Many District commercial real estate contacts reported Energy
improvements in demand that resulted in rent growth, Contacts indicated that liquefied natural gas exports, on
but they cautioned that the rate of improvement varied average, continued to increase from the Gulf Coast.
by metropolitan area, submarket, and property type. The Reports from energy contacts noted that completion of pipeline projects continued to add growth in capacity to
majority of commercial contractors indicated that the the Gulf Coast. Utility contacts indicated residential
pace of nonresidential construction activity had in- usage continued to decline while overall commercial and
creased from one year ago, but a growing share noted industrial usage increased slightly.
that activity was down slightly. Most contacts reported
healthy backlogs. While several reports indicated that Agriculture
the pace of multifamily construction matched or exceed- Agriculture conditions across the District were mixed.
ed the year-ago level, some continued to report that Significant rainfall throughout much of the District elimi-
activity was down from one year earlier. Looking forward, nated drought conditions but resulted in many areas
District commercial construction contacts’ expectations experiencing abnormally moist to excessively wet condi-
for the pace of nonresidential construction over the third tions. These heavy or frequent rains caused some crop
quarter was mixed, while their outlook for the pace of damage and delayed planting and harvesting in parts of
multifamily construction continued to level off. the District. Forecasts still indicate that the District will exceed last year’s production in cotton, soybeans, and
Manufacturing peanuts, but lower rice and corn production is expected.
District manufacturers indicated that overall activity With harvesting completed for the current season, Flori-
expanded, but at a slower pace since the last reporting da’s orange production forecast was significantly lower
period. While overall manufacturing activity expanded, than last year’s production. On a year-over-year basis,
contacts reported slower growth in new orders amid prices paid to farmers in June were up for cotton, beef,
modest gains in production and more tepid job gains.
Supply delivery times were reported to be getting short- broilers, and eggs but were down for corn, rice, and
er, while finished inventory levels decreased. Contacts’ soybeans. ■
outlook for production was relatively unchanged from the For more information about District economic conditions visit: www.frbatlanta.org/economy-matters/regional-economics F-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago The Beige Book ■ August 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Growth in economic activity in the Seventh District slowed to a modest pace in July and early August, and contacts
expected growth to continue at that pace over the next 6 to 12 months. Employment, consumer spending, business
spending, and manufacturing production all grew at modest rates, while construction and real estate activity increased
slightly. Wages and prices rose modestly. Conditions were little changed in the financial sector and worsened some in
the agricultural sector.
Employment and Wages Consumer Spending
Employment growth slowed to a modest rate over the Consumer spending increased modestly over the report-
reporting period, and contacts expected it to continue at ing period. Non-auto retail sales rose slightly, led by
that pace over the next 6 to 12 months. Contacts indicat- improvements in the furniture, building materials, food
ed that the labor market was tight and reported difficulty and beverage, and health and personal care segments.
filling positions at all skill levels. Hiring was primarily Grocery store sales were little changed overall, though
focused on professional and technical, sales, and pro- contacts reported that there was growth in delivery and
duction workers, though there was an increase in the pickup services. Auto dealers across the District reported
number of contacts hiring management and administra- a moderate increase in sales. The vehicle mix continued
tive workers. A staffing firm that supplies firms with IT to shift from cars to light trucks, led by increased sales of
workers said growth was strong, while a staffing firm that crossover vehicles. The pace of used vehicle sales was
primarily supplies manufacturers with production workers up modestly on balance.
reported a slight decline in billable hours. Wage growth
was modest overall, with wage increases more likely for Business Spending
high-skilled occupations. Many contacts said that the Growth in business spending slowed to a modest pace in
cost of health insurance had increased. July and early August. Retail inventories were slightly higher than desired. Manufacturing inventories were at
Prices comfortable levels overall, though a surge in steel im-
Overall, prices again rose modestly in July and early ports led to elevated inventories at service centers.
August. Retail prices increased slightly, with the excep- Growth in capital spending slowed to a modest pace,
tion of grocery prices, which were flat after a period of and contacts expected growth to continue at that pace
steady declines. There were multiple reports of rising for the next 6 to 12 months. Outlays were primarily for
prices for older used cars. Many manufacturers noted an replacing industrial equipment, IT equipment, and reno-
increase in raw materials costs. One manufacturing vating structures, though there was an increase in the
contact indicated that persistent rail delivery delays were number of contacts reporting spending for expansion.
forcing them to use more costly modes of transportation. G-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago
Construction and Real Estate Agriculture
Construction and real estate activity increased slightly A lack of rainfall in July and early August hurt crops in
over the reporting period. Residential construction in- much of Iowa and parts of Illinois and Indiana. Crop
creased modestly, with growth concentrated in the single conditions and maturity lagged that of last year’s bumper
-family segment and suburban locations. Home sales crop, to the point that contacts expected the corn harvest
increased modestly overall, with contacts across the to be below trend and the soybean harvest to be at
District indicating that low inventories of single-family about trend. Corn and wheat prices fell, while soybean
starter homes were holding back growth. Growth varied prices were flat. Given current prices, some operations
by price point, with a slowdown in sales of homes under will be able to make crop insurance claims and take
$250,000 and a pickup in sales of homes over $250,000. advantage of government support programs. Dairy pric-
Growth also varied by location, with reports of a moder- es moved higher, reportedly easing losses for dairy
ate increase in the Chicago area and a slight slowdown operations. Hog and cattle prices were down, but prices
in the Detroit area. Home prices were up slightly overall. were still high enough for many operations to be able to
Nonresidential construction was little changed, though turn a profit. In addition, contacts expected that the
one contact noted decreasing demand from automotive opening of a pork processing plant in Michigan would
suppliers for building new manufacturing facilities. Com- lead to greater demand for hogs in the region. ■
mercial real estate activity remained strong, edging up
further on balance over the reporting period. Commercial
vacancy rates declined slightly and both commercial
rents and the availability of sublease space changed
little.
Manufacturing
Manufacturing production growth slowed to a modest
pace in July and early August. Steel production grew
modestly (with increases in both domestic and interna-
tional demand), and heavy machinery picked up some
as well, with contacts from both sectors reporting in-
creased demand from the energy sector. Sales for spe-
cialty metals manufacturers increased a bit, with con-
tacts highlighting growth in the energy, aerospace, and
defense sectors. Manufacturers of construction materials
reported slow but steady growth in line with the pace of
improvement in the construction sector. Demand for
heavy trucks increased moderately, while demand for
autos declined slightly.
Banking and Finance
Financial conditions were little changed on balance over
the reporting period. Financial market participants noted
that equity prices remain high and volatility remains low.
Business loan demand slowed some, particularly from
middle-market firms. The slowdown led to reports of
increased competition between banks for customers and
greater pressure on loan pricing and terms. In spite of
lower volumes overall, contacts reported increased
demand for capital equipment loans. Consumer loan
demand increased slightly on balance. Demand for
home and auto loans increased slightly and quality for
both was little changed. For more information about District economic conditions visit: chicagofed.org/cfsbc G-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis The Beige Book ■ August 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Economic conditions have improved at a modest pace since our previous report. District labor market conditions contin-
ue to improve, although employment growth has leveled in recent months as contacts report difficulties filling open
positions. Price pressures remain modest, although fewer contacts reported increasing prices charged to customers in
recent months. In general, business contacts surveyed in mid-August continued to hold an optimistic outlook for growth
during the remainder of 2017. On net, 53 percent of contacts expect District economic conditions in 2017 to be better or
somewhat better than last year. This outlook was generally unchanged since contacts were surveyed in mid-May.
Employment and Wages
Employment has increased modestly since the previous Reports on construction costs were mixed. Contacts in
report. Of the business contacts surveyed in mid-August, St. Louis and Louisville noted rising construction costs;
on net, 29 percent reported that third-quarter employ- however, several Little Rock contacts reported declines
ment was higher or slightly higher than a year ago. Con- in construction costs. In particular, multiple contacts in
tacts in a variety of industries continued to report difficul- the wood products sector in Arkansas reported that
ties finding skilled or qualified employees. Construction excess supply continues to drive down input prices.
contacts across the District reported shortages of both Commodity price pressures have been mixed. Since the
skilled and unskilled workers. In addition, manufacturing previous report, coal prices in Illinois, Indiana, and Ken-
contacts in Louisville noted that difficulties in finding tucky have been flat. In the agricultural sector, corn
qualified labor have led to longer lead times and an prices increased modestly, while sorghum prices are
inability to fill additional orders. unchanged. In Little Rock, cash prices of rice increased
Contacts reported moderate wage growth since the moderately. A Little Rock contact reported that soybean
previous report, as tightness in the labor market has and wheat prices also increased. Prices of cottonseed in
resulted in upward pressure on wages. On net, 61 per- Memphis fell slightly, and soybean and wheat prices in
cent of contacts reported wages were higher or slightly St. Louis decreased moderately.
higher than a year ago, and a similar share reported
increases in labor costs. Consumer Spending Reports from general retailers, auto dealers, and hotel-
Prices iers portray a mixed picture of consumer spending activi-
Price pressures have increased modestly since our ty. Although July real sales tax collections increased in
previous report. Business contacts surveyed reported Arkansas relative to a year ago, they declined in Ken-
that prices charged to consumers and non-labor input tucky, Missouri and Tennessee. Multiple auto dealers
costs increased modestly. On net, 22 percent of contacts across the District reported a decrease in sales, which
reported that prices were higher than a year ago and 35 have failed to meet their expectations during 2017. St.
percent reported that non-labor input costs were higher Louis dealers indicated a shift in demand toward low-end
than a year ago. Although prices continue to move up- vehicles.
ward, growth has slowed during the third quarter. H-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
Hospitality contacts in Missouri reported that business Residential construction activity has been flat since the
activity has increased since our previous report, whereas previous report. July permit activity dropped slightly
hoteliers in Kentucky and Arkansas indicated a decline in relative to the previous month. However, most contacts
hotel occupancy rates. reported an increase in residential construction com- pared with a year ago. Expectations are slightly less
Manufacturing optimistic for the fourth quarter.
Manufacturing activity has increased modestly since our
previous report, although the pace of growth slowed Commercial real estate activity has improved modestly
across the District. On net, about one-third of contacts since the previous report. Contacts reported relatively
reported that production, new orders, and capacity utili- strong demand for most property types, particularly office
zation increased in the third quarter relative to one year and industrial. However, contacts indicated a decrease
ago. The results are down from our previous survey, in multifamily demand relative to a year ago.
when more than half of contacts reported improvements Commercial construction activity remained strong. Multi-
in these areas. More contacts reported increases in ple contacts reported an optimistic outlook for the rest of
capital expenditures than in the previous survey. Several 2017. Planning and development of new hotels contin-
companies reported new capital expenditure and facility ued throughout the District, particularly in Louisville and
expansion plans, including firms that manufacture food Memphis. Multifamily construction activity also remained
products, transportation equipment, and metal products. robust.
Contacts are less optimistic about the next quarter than
in our previous report, with fewer than half expecting Banking and Finance
improvements, down from two-thirds last quarter. Some Banking conditions in the Eight District have improved at
contacts expressed concerns about political uncertainty a modest pace since the previous report. Loan demand
and a slowdown in the auto industry. rose at a moderate rate with continued signs of slight tapering. District contacts reported that commercial and
Nonfinancial Services industrial loan demand grew moderately relative to year-
Reports of plans in the service sector have been positive ago levels, while year-over-year auto loan demand expe-
since the previous report. More than two-thirds of trans- rienced an unexpected and sharp decline. Delinquencies
portation and service contacts reported that sales met or rose modestly across all loan categories and are ex-
exceeded expectations in the current quarter. More than pected to continue rise next quarter. Contacts reported
half of contacts reported higher dollar sales in the current that competition from other banks and credit unions has
quarter than this time last year, and slightly less than half increased moderately, while competition from non-bank
expect sales to be higher in the next quarter than they financial service providers has remained generally un-
were last year. Firms that provide transportation and changed.
information technology services reported plans to ex-
pand facilities and hire employees, particularly in the St. Agriculture and Natural Resources
Louis region. Reports from healthcare firms remain District agricultural conditions were mixed in this report-
mixed, but are more positive than earlier this year. ing period. The conditions of the District’s cotton and rice crops have improved since our previous report and are
Real Estate and Construction better than the same time last year. Although rice condi-
Residential real estate sales activity has been mixed tions have improved, early-season flooding pushed
since the previous report. Seasonally adjusted home acreage down 25 percent from last year. The lost acre-
sales for July ticked up slightly from the previous month age will hurt rice farmers this year, but some of these
in the District’s four major MSAs. Year-to-date sales farmers are optimistic that a recent trade agreement with
were generally in line with those from a year ago. Local China will boost profits. Meanwhile, corn and soybean
real estate contacts continued to report that significant conditions declined from the previous period.
shortages in inventory have hindered sales, and, on net,
nearly 40 percent of survey respondents indicated that Natural resource extraction conditions declined slightly
sales fell short of expectations halfway through the third from June to July, with seasonally adjusted coal produc-
quarter. One industry contact noted that mortgage rates tion declining 3 percent. However, July production was
have been lower than expected, providing a positive 10 percent above a year earlier. ■
impact on business. For more information about District economic conditions, visit: www.research.stlouisfed.org/regecon/ H-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis The Beige Book ■ August 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
The Ninth District economy grew modestly overall since the last report. Employment grew modestly, despite tight labor
conditions. Wage pressure was moderate, while price pressure was modest overall. The District economy showed
growth in services, real estate, manufacturing, residential construction, tourism, and energy. But consumer spending
and commercial construction were mixed, and agriculture remained weak.
Employment and Wages Wages grew moderately since the last report. A South
Employment grew modestly since the last report, despite Dakota contact said there was pressure to boost wages
continued tight labor conditions. Seasonally adjusted and companies “seem to be willing to pay a bit more” for
employment in July grew in a majority of District states; talent. A staffing contact said that the recently passed
Minnesota added 7,700 jobs, and June job growth was $15-per-hour minimum wage in Minneapolis—being
also revised significantly higher. But South Dakota and implemented over five years—was rippling across wage
Montana saw total employment dip slightly in July, due at expectations of workers earning below or near that level.
least in part to constrained labor supply. Montana Some wage sentiment was softer, however. The
workforce development offices saw one-third fewer aforementioned poll of ag bankers found that two-thirds
active job seekers in July compared with a year earlier. believed 2017 wage increases would be between 1 and
District-wide, initial unemployment claims dropped by 14 3 percent. A Minnesota construction company said that
percent over the most recent six-week period compared office personnel wages “had very modest increases this
with a year earlier, and continuing claims dropped 12 year for some, and none for others.”
percent; every District state saw significant declines in
both categories. In Mankato, Minn., labor is “the number Prices
one concern,” according to a business source. A Price pressure remained modest since the last report.
Minneapolis-St. Paul staffing firm said that “lots of needs Retail fuel prices in District states increased slightly. A
go unfulfilled” and business was being turned away commercial contractor reported that construction
because of tight labor. Labor retention continued to be a materials prices were steady, but he was budgeting for a
problem. A South Dakota human resources consultant 2 percent increase in construction costs largely due to
said most businesses were hiring, but more often “to labor costs. Rental rates for apartments in Minneapolis-
replace turnover and retirements than to increase St. Paul have increased 4 to 5 percent over the last 12
headcount.” An ad hoc poll of ag bankers in months, according to industry sources, while increases
southwestern Minnesota found that 60 percent were in other commercial segments have been more modest,
hiring, but the large majority were doing so because of especially of late. Prices received by farmers for wheat,
labor turnover; 90 percent said they were having hay, milk, hogs, cattle, chickens, and eggs increased in
difficulty finding qualified labor. June compared with a year earlier; prices for corn, soybeans, and turkeys decreased. I-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis
Consumer Spending and Tourism developer said his company could have built 40 to 45
Consumer spending was mixed since the last report. The homes this year, but was on track to build just 32 due to
most current data on statewide gross retail sales showed a lack of available labor.
a decline in recent summer months in South Dakota and Commercial real estate grew modestly since the last
Wisconsin compared with a year earlier; however, sales report. Industrial vacancy rates were at very low levels in
tax revenue in North Dakota increased in July. While Minneapolis-St. Paul, though rental rates were flat.
store closures grabbed headlines, retail expansions were Office vacancy rates were flat to slightly lower. Despite
also seen in many metro markets in the District. A mall continued strong multifamily construction, vacancy rates
manager in Minnesota reported that business was “good in Minneapolis-St. Paul and Missoula, Mont. remained
overall,” despite the loss of an anchor tenant. low. Residential real estate sales slowed in July
Summer tourism has been generally positive. South compared with a year earlier. Though increases were
Dakota’s annual Sturgis Motorcycle Rally saw an uptick seen in a few markets (northern Wisconsin; Missoula
in attendance of almost 5 percent over last year. Most and Bozeman, Mont.), most markets saw declines,
regional and state fairs have seen increased attendance. including a 5 percent drop across Minnesota, which was
Glacier National Park summer visits were up 25 percent widely attributed to low inventory.
over last year’s record attendance. But attendance at Manufacturing
other District national parks was spotty. Minnesota hotel District manufacturing activity increased moderately
occupancy rates in July were strong overall compared since the last report. An index of manufacturing
with a year earlier, but some weakness was seen in St. conditions indicated increased activity in July compared
Cloud and northern Minnesota. with a month earlier in Minnesota and the Dakotas. An
Services annual survey of Montana manufacturers indicated a
Activity in the professional services industry increased positive outlook among respondents for production,
moderately since the last report. Providers of data sales, profits, and employment over the next year. A
analytics for agriculture reported a jump in demand this producer of precast concrete products announced a
year as farmers sought to control input costs through large new plant in South Dakota, and a pipe
more precise application of fertilizer and chemicals. A manufacturer announced a new plant in Minnesota.
Minnesota accounting and professional services firm Several suppliers to the wind power industry described
said it was seeing “pretty significant growth” among demand as strong. Contacts in agricultural equipment
clients looking for one-stop services. A provider of tele- said that activity remained slow overall, but conditions
health services reported that demand was increasing have improved from a year ago, as demand for some
from rural areas. types of equipment picked up and inventories dropped.
Construction and Real Estate Agriculture, Energy, and Natural Resources
Construction was mixed since the last report. Industry District agricultural conditions remained weak overall
data suggested that spending has slowed for commercial since the previous report. In spite of recent rains, severe
and heavy construction in the District compared with a drought conditions persisted in the Dakotas and
year ago. A southern Minnesota contractor said the Montana. Farmers in many areas were cutting failed
company’s commercial construction volume was down cereal crops for hay, while livestock producers were
one-quarter from last year due to delays for several selling off parts of their herds due to a lack of feed.
projects. However, commercial permits in July— Meanwhile, crop conditions remained much better in
suggestive of future activity—were higher in a majority of eastern parts of the District, and sugar beet growers in
the District’s larger cities, with the notable exception of Minnesota and North Dakota were anticipating a
Minneapolis. Residential building, on the other hand, potential record crop. Activity in the energy and mining
saw modest but widespread growth since the last report. sectors increased slightly since the last report. Montana
Increases in the number of permitted, single-family coal production increased in recent months compared
homes in July were seen in a majority of larger cities, with a year earlier. District oil and gas exploration as of
while the Minneapolis-St. Paul region was flat but saw mid-August was flat compared with the previous report.
strong multifamily permitting. Labor shortages were Regulators approved a major expansion at a natural gas
reportedly holding back more construction. A Minnesota processing plant in the Bakken oil patch. ■ I-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City The Beige Book ■ August 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Economic activity in the Tenth District increased modestly in late July and August, and most sectors expected moderate
growth in future months. Professional, high-tech, and wholesale trade firms reported a strong increase in sales, and
manufacturing activity expanded at a moderate pace. District energy activity expanded modestly compared to the previ-
ous survey period, and bankers reported steady to improving overall loan demand, stable deposit levels, and un-
changed loan quality. District real estate activity continued to increase at a slight pace, while consumer spending con-
tacts indicated growth was unchanged since the previous survey period. Agricultural conditions weakened but at a
slower pace, with subdued farm income and slightly lower farmland values. In addition, transportation contacts indicated
slightly lower sales than the previous survey period. Employment and employee hours rose slightly in late July and
August, and contacts in most sectors reported moderate wage growth. Input prices were up moderately over the previ-
ous survey period, while selling prices increased modestly in most sectors.
Employment and Wages reported moderately higher input and selling prices, with
Employment and employee hours across the District both expected to continue to rise moderately moving
rose slightly in late July and August over the previous forward. Restaurant input prices grew at a moderate
survey period, and modest increases were expected in pace, while selling prices edged up. Selling prices in the
coming months. Contacts in the wholesale trade, profes- transportation sector declined slightly, while input prices
sional and high-tech services, real estate, education, were up moderately after falling in the previous survey.
health services, and manufacturing sectors reported an Construction prices continued to expand modestly with
increase in employment, while contacts in the retail slight increases anticipated in the coming months. Manu-
trade, auto sales, transportation, restaurants, and tour- facturers reported slight growth in prices for finished
ism and hotels sectors noted a decline. All sectors ex- goods, and raw material costs continued to edge higher.
cept the auto sales and tourism sectors expected an Manufacturers expected moderate increases in both
increase in employment in the months ahead. Since the finished goods and raw material prices over the next few
previous survey period, average employee hours rose months.
for all sectors except the retail trade, auto sales, and Consumer Spending
health services sectors, which experienced declines. Consumer spending was mostly flat in late July and
Respondents noted a shortage of commercial drivers, August, while expectations for future growth increased at
salespeople, and service workers. a modest pace. Retail sales decreased slightly over the
Contacts in most sectors reported moderate wage previous survey period, but remained above year-ago
growth, and expectations in the coming months were for levels. Several retailers noted an increase in sales for
strong wage growth. apparel and discounted items, while higher-priced prod- ucts sold poorly. Contacts anticipated sales to rise mod-
Prices erately in the next few months, and inventory levels were
Overall, input prices were up moderately compared to expected to increase modestly. Auto sales fell moderate-
the prior survey period, while selling prices increased ly, but were slightly above year-ago levels. Dealer con-
modestly and contacts expected additional price increas- tacts anticipated a further slowdown in sales for the
es in the months ahead. Respondents in the retail sector months ahead. Auto inventories were expected to rise J-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City
slightly heading forward. Restaurant sales increased Banking
strongly and were well above year-ago levels. Contacts Bankers reported steady to improving overall loan de-
expected a moderate increase in activity heading for- mand for the month of August. A majority of respond-
ward. District tourism activity decreased slightly in late ents indicated a stable demand for commercial and
July and August, and was lower than a year ago. Tour- industrial, commercial real estate, agricultural, and con-
ism contacts expected activity to fall further heading into sumer installment loans. Demand for residential real
the fall months. estate loans was mixed among respondents. Most bank- ers indicated loan quality was unchanged compared to a
Manufacturing and Other Business Activity year ago. In addition, most respondents expect loan
Manufacturing activity expanded at a moderate pace in quality to remain essentially the same over the next six
late July and August, and the majority of other business months. Credit standards remained largely unchanged in
contacts reported moderate sales increases. Manufac- all major loan categories. Finally, a majority of respond-
turers reported sustained moderate growth in production, ents reported stable deposit levels.
particularly for metals, aircraft, and electronics products.
Shipments, new orders, and order backlog grew at a Energy
solid pace, and activity was higher than a year ago. Energy activity rose at a modest pace since the last
Manufacturers’ capital spending plans rose moderately, survey period, and expectations for future activity re-
and firms’ expectations for future activity remained favor- mained positive. The number of active oil and gas drilling
able. rigs increased modestly across the District, particularly in
Outside of manufacturing, professional, high-tech, and Oklahoma. With rising rig counts and relatively stable oil
wholesale trade firms reported strong sales increases, and gas prices, oil and natural gas production is project-
while transportation contacts indicated slightly lower ed to continue to increase in the District’s Niobrara and
sales than the previous survey. All firms expected a Anadarko shale regions through September. Natural gas
strong improvement in sales in the next six months. activity has picked up modestly since the last survey
Professional, high-tech, and wholesale trade firms re- period, particularly in the Arkoma basin in Oklahoma.
ported strong capital spending plans, while transporta- Agriculture
tion firms anticipated a slight decrease in capital expend- The District farm economy continued to soften since the
itures heading forward. previous reporting period, but the pace of the decline
Real Estate and Construction slowed somewhat. Crop prices decreased modestly in
Overall District real estate activity continued to increase late July and August due to an increase in production
at a slight pace in late July and August. Residential expectations for the year. Livestock prices also declined
home sales were flat since the previous survey period, modestly and some cattle feedlots reported modest
and contacts anticipated no change in the coming losses. Although District contacts continued to report a
months. Sales of low- and medium-priced homes contin- decrease in farm income and loan repayment rates, the
ued to outpace sales of higher-priced homes. Residential pace of the decline was slower than in recent periods.
home prices and inventories were modestly higher than The continued decline in farm income again pushed
the previous survey period. Residential construction farmland values lower, but only slightly, as values also
activity continued to expand at a slight pace, as con- appeared to stabilize in some parts of the District. In
struction supply activity remained flat while new home general, agricultural credit conditions continued to weak-
starts and traffic of potential buyers rose. Expectations en and were expected to decline further in coming
for overall residential construction activity were for a months. ■
modest increase in the months ahead. Commercial real
estate activity continued to expand modestly, as absorp-
tion, completions, construction underway, sales, and
prices rose, while vacancy rates declined. Commercial
real estate activity was expected to continue to increase
at a modest pace moving forward. For more information about District economic conditions visit: www.KansasCityFed.org/Research/RegionalEconomy J-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas The Beige Book ■ August 2017
Note: The information included in this report was collected before Hurricane Harvey made landfall in Texas.
Summary of Economic Activity
The Eleventh District economy continued to expand at a moderate pace over the past six weeks. Manufacturing output
strengthened, and activity in nonfinancial services increased. Growth in retail sales accelerated, in part due to a rebound
in auto sales. Home sales rose slightly, but office leasing activity was mixed. Loan volumes expanded, while demand for
oilfield services was flat. Crop conditions remained mostly favorable. Employment, wages and prices increased. Out-
looks remained positive, although several contacts expressed concern that policy-related uncertainty would impact the
broader economy.
Employment and Wages cerns for producers, and cotton prices were at breake-
Overall employment rose, and wage pressures were ven levels. Gasoline and diesel prices rose over the
similar to or up slightly from the previous reporting peri- reporting period following the increase in oil prices.
od. Reports of labor shortages were widespread across Manufacturing
sectors, particularly for skilled workers. Manufacturers The pace of expansion in the manufacturing sector
added to payrolls, with some contacts noting that labor picked up over the reporting period. Output growth
shortages were pushing up wages. The construction strengthened for durable goods, led by increases in
labor market generally remained tight. Hiring in the ser- transportation equipment, machinery, and computer and
vices sector continued, but employment in retail was flat. electronic product manufacturing. Demand for fabricated
Hiring in the upstream energy sector slowed, and some metal manufacturing edged up, however, a few produc-
firms were considering reducing staff in the second half ers cited seasonal or energy-related weakness. Among
of the year. Airlines also noted a slower pace of hiring. nondurables, food manufacturers saw continued strength
Two staffing firms cited wage pressure for lower-level in demand. Exports remained a source of weakness for
manufacturing positions, and one contact noted wage some manufacturers who sell internationally. Overall,
pressure for higher-level IT and engineering workers. outlooks were positive, although some expressed con-
Prices cern about political uncertainty.
Selling prices increased at a faster pace than in the prior Refinery utilization rates increased along the Gulf Coast.
report, and contacts noted upward pressure on input Chemical producers noted healthy global and domestic
costs. Staffing firms said pricing was flat, although one demand and higher year-over-year production. Outlooks
contact noted renegotiating certain contracts at lower for chemical manufacturers remained optimistic due to
rates. Airlines said ticket prices were stable in the do- expectations of persistent feedstock cost advantages
mestic market, but increased for South American routes. over their international counterparts.
New home prices were flat, but there were several re-
ports of incentives and/or discounts being offered, partic- Retail Sales
ularly on speculative inventory. Grain and cattle prices Retail sales expanded at a markedly faster clip than in
fell during the reporting period, prompting financial con- the prior period. One contact noted that the tax-free weekend stimulated sales. Sales of building materials K-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
and garden equipment rose. Auto sales rebounded Activity in Dallas-Fort Worth remained strong, although
following weakness in the prior reporting period; howev- contacts expect growth to moderate. Apartment demand
er, there were a few reports of softening demand in firmed up in Houston following earlier weakness, and
Houston and Central Texas. Contacts said margins have outlooks were positive, with contacts expecting contin-
improved due to increased purchases of larger vehicles. ued, gradual improvement.
Outlooks among retailers were mixed. Office leasing activity stayed sluggish in Houston and
Nonfinancial Services vacancy rates were elevated, putting downward pressure
Demand for nonfinancial services expanded moderately on rents. Fundamentals in Houston’s industrial market
over the past six weeks. Demand for staffing services were healthy given near-record-low vacancy rates. One
increased at a moderate pace. Activity in Dallas-Fort contact noted that investor interest has picked up in
Worth increased, while one contact noted an unexpected Houston. Office and industrial leasing activity continued
decline in demand from oil and gas firms in Houston. to be solid in Dallas-Fort Worth.
Professional and technical services firms saw revenue Financial Services
gains during the reporting period, although firms tied to Loan demand increased at a somewhat faster pace than
the energy sector cited continued sluggish demand. the previous reporting period. Growth in commercial and
Accommodation and food services contacts noted slight industrial loan volumes ticked up. Commercial and resi-
increases in revenues, while revenue at healthcare firms dential real estate loan balances grew at a slower pace
fell during the reporting period. Airlines said passenger than in the previous reporting cycle, while consumer
demand was stable over the past six weeks. Domestic lending declined. Both core deposit volumes and the
travel remained solid, and activity along South American interest paid on them expanded slightly. Sentiments
routes improved. about future business activity and loan demand re-
Transportation and warehousing firms noted higher mained largely positive.
revenues and an increase in cargo volumes since the
last report. Rail cargo rose due to persistent strong gains Energy
in shipments of fracking sand, although shipments of Demand for oilfield services held steady during the re-
petroleum products and motor vehicles declined further. porting period. Drilling activity expanded further in the
Parcel shipments were flat over the reporting period but Permian Basin, but has tapered off, on net, in the Elev-
up from year-ago levels. Year-over-year growth in de- enth District. Most contacts expect the rig count to re- main flat or fall slightly through yearend, and some firms
mand was driven by increases in shipments of non-
durable goods, particularly food, apparel, petroleum and noted reducing capital expenditures for the remainder of
coal products, and plastics and rubber products. Out- the year. Outlooks were less optimistic compared with
looks among nonfinancial services firms were cautiously the previous report, as firms expect lower oil prices in the
optimistic, with some contacts expressing concern about first half of 2018 and many firms have lowered their capital expenditure projections for next year.
the impact of the current political environment on the
broader economy. Agriculture
Construction and Real Estate Above-average moisture levels and cooler-than-normal
Home sales were flat to up slightly over the reporting weather boosted crop conditions. Sorghum and corn
period. Contacts noted ongoing strength in sales of crop yields were better than average. However, grain prices fell below typical breakeven prices during the
moderately-priced new homes; sales at the higher-price
points softened, however. Buyers remained price- reporting period, and contacts noted it will take well-
sensitive and were shopping more for deals. One contact above-average yields to offset the low prices. Cattle
said that some master-planned communities are adjust- prices also trended lower, prompting some financial
ing lot sizes downward in future phases, to cater to the concerns for ranchers after several months of profitabil- ity. Agricultural producers were concerned about the
solid demand for moderately-priced product. renegotiation of NAFTA, as many rely on export markets
Apartment leasing remained active in Austin, but rent to sell their products. ■
growth has moderated and incentives were being offered
at the high end in submarkets, where competition was For more information about District economic conditions visit:
intense among new properties in the leasing phase. www.dallasfed.org/research/texas K-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco The Beige Book ■ August 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Economic activity in the Twelfth District continued to expand at a moderate pace during the reporting period of July
through mid-August. Overall price inflation was flat, while upward wage pressures intensified and labor market condi-
tions tightened further. Sales of retail goods were unchanged, and growth in the consumer and business services sec-
tors remained strong. Manufacturing activity picked up at a moderate pace, and activity in the agriculture sector expand-
ed modestly. Contacts reported robust activity in residential real estate markets, and conditions in the commercial sector
strengthened. Lending activity grew at a modest pace.
Employment and Wages modities. Mounting competitive pricing pressures in the
Labor market conditions tightened further, and upward retail grocery sector pushed prices lower.
wage pressure intensified in most parts of the District. Retail Trade and Services
Shortages of software engineers, particularly those with On balance, the pace of retail sales was largely un-
experience in cloud computing, boosted wages in the changed from the previous period, but many contacts
technology industry. Robust labor demand in the online reported increasing competitive pressures from online
retail sector boosted hiring in the Seattle area. Shortages retailers. Demand for automobiles grew at a similar pace
of skilled labor somewhat restricted production in the to that of late summer last year. However, contacts
manufacturing sector. While employee levels were un- reported that inventories of used vehicles remained
changed in the pharmaceutical industry, contacts noted elevated, particularly for sedans, as low fuel prices
that some large companies began to move some pro- boosted demand for trucks and sport utility vehicles.
duction facilities to lower cost locales outside of the Overall sales at grocery retail outlets were largely un-
District. Wages in the construction sector continued to changed from the prior reporting period, but contacts
climb due to shortages of qualified contractors. Invest- reported that traditional retailers faced growing competi-
ments in automation in the agriculture sector picked up tive pressure from multinational chains. Sales of apparel
further, as labor shortages persisted and businesses products declined modestly, and contacts reported con-
sought to increase production efficiency. Legalization of tinued competitive pressure from online retail outlets.
cannabis increased demand for low-skilled workers in Additionally, foot traffic at large shopping centers de-
parts of the District. clined further.
Prices Activity in the consumer and business services sectors
Overall, price inflation was flat over the reporting period. grew at a strong pace. Domestic and international flight
Strong demand from the construction sector boosted arrivals continued to increase at a robust pace, and
prices of raw materials and steel products. Strong de- contacts reported that airports were running at or above
mand in the hospitality sector pushed up food and bever- capacity. Activity in the hotel industry remained robust in
age prices at restaurants and hotels. Inflation remained Southern California, although contacts expect the strong
low for branded pharmaceuticals, while prices of generic pace of growth to slow somewhat at the start of next
drugs continued to decline modestly. Continued elevated year. While the health-care industry faced some uncer-
production reduced prices for some agricultural com- L-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco
tainty around federal policy, demand for services Real Estate and Construction
strengthened, and investments in medical information Real estate market activity continued to grow at a robust
technology picked up after a soft first half of the year. pace. Residential construction activity remained strong
Demand for restaurant services continued to be strong. throughout the District, particularly in urban centers. New
Sales of information technology services increased construction activity was slowed only by shortages of
modestly, as declining sales of legacy product lines were available land. Supply constraints pushed inventories to
more than offset by increased investment in cloud com- very low levels and slowed home sales somewhat. Pric-
puting and big data solutions. es continued to rise at a brisk pace, and contacts report- ed that affordable housing shortages in Southern Califor-
Manufacturing nia remained a serious concern. Overall, commercial
Manufacturing activity expanded at a moderate pace real estate activity picked up to a moderate pace. Declin-
over the reporting period. Conditions in the steel sector ing foot traffic at large shopping centers continued to
improved, as global growth continued to strengthen and push up vacancy rates. Rents for commercial property
competitive pressures from abroad eased. Production of edged up slightly.
semiconductors rose modestly, while new orders rose
strongly; contacts expect overall sales for 2017 to grow Financial Institutions
by nearly a double-digit pace. Production of pharmaceu- Lending activity grew at a modest pace over the report-
ticals picked up over the first half of the year. Deliveries ing period. Loan demand expanded modestly. Deposit
of commercial aircraft over the first seven months of the growth weakened slightly due to increased competition
year grew at around the same pace as the prior year, from nonbank institutions. Credit quality remained un-
while new orders increased substantially. changed, and delinquency rates continued to be low. Contacts noted that regulatory costs continued to con-
Agriculture and Resource-Related Industries strain profitability at community banks in some regions. ■
Activity in the agriculture sector picked up at a modest
pace. Harvest yields of grain were strong. Dealers re-
ported that demand for used agricultural equipment
picked up, while sales of new equipment were soft.
Overcapacity in the energy generation industry hindered
profitability somewhat, and contacts expect capital in-
vestments over the next few years to slow from histori-
cally high levels. L-2



