 For use at 2:00 p.m., E.D.T. Wednesday August 8, 2001
Summary of Commentary on Current Economic Conditions by Federal Reserve District July 2001

SUMMARY OF COMMENTARY ON CURRENT ECONOMIC CONDITIONS BY FEDERAL RESERVE DISTRICTS JULY 2001

 TABLE OF CONTENTS
SUMMARY.................................................................................................................. i
First District-Boston.................................................................................................. I-1
Second District-New York............................................................................................... II-1
Third District-Philadelphia........................................................................................... III-1
Fourth District-Cleveland............................................................................................... V-1
Fifth District-Richmond ................................................................................................V-1
Sixth District-Atlanta................................................................................................. VI-1
Seventh District-Chicago.............................................................................................. VII-1
Eighth District-St. Louis.............................................................................................. VI-1
Ninth District-Minneapolis............................................................................................. IX-1
Tenth District-Kansas City.............................................................................................. X-1
Eleventh District-Dallas............................................................................................... XI-1
Twelfth District-San Francisco........................................................................................ XII-1

 SUMMARY* Reports from most Federal Reserve Districts point to slow growth or lateral movement in
economic activity in June and July. Retail sales generally were sluggish and frequently below
expectations, despite substantial discounting on a wide range of consumer goods. Manufacturing
activity in nearly all sectors and regions declined further in recent months as producers adjusted
to weak domestic and foreign demand and worked through accumulated inventories. Sustained
weakness in the manufacturing sector spilled over to other businesses, with many Districts
indicating declines in demand for office space and trucking and shipping services. In contrast,
residential real estate markets remained stable and even expanded in some areas, with the
relative strength of the sector attributed in part to lower mortgage interest rates. Agricultural
producers continued to struggle against low prices, weak exports, higher energy costs, and the
weather, although some regions reported improvement in growing conditions since the last
survey period. Financial institutions across the country reported reduced demand for a wide
variety of loans, tighter credit standards, and stable-to-deteriorating quality of existing loans and
leases; residential mortgages were the notable exception to these trends. Continued slow economic growth loosened labor markets and eased wage pressures in
most Districts in June and July, but rising benefit costs continued to add to compensation costs.
Prices for energy, fuel, and many material inputs fell in most regions. Falling input costs and
stiff domestic and foreign competition kept prices of most consumer goods in check.
* Prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco based on information collected before July 30,
2001. This document summarizes comments received from businesses and other contacts outside of the
Federal Reserve System and is not a commentary on the views of Federal Reserve officials.

Consumer Spending Retail sales generally remained weak in June and July, although there were scattered
reports of a pickup in sales. Boston, Chicago, Cleveland, New York, Richmond, and San
Francisco reported sales below expectations and well beneath comparable store sales for the
same period last year. Atlanta, Dallas, Minneapolis, and St. Louis noted a slight pickup in sales
since the last survey period, though sales were flat to down compared to last year. Kansas City
and Philadelphia reported flat sales during the last survey period. The weakness in retail sales
was broad-based across product lines and types of outlets. Within the sector, sales were
strongest at large discount retailers, though many other retailers were offering discounts to
promote sales. Auto sales apparently fared better than other areas of consumer spending in some
Districts. Districts attributed the better-than-expected sales in part to manufacturer incentives
and lower financing charges. Districts reporting on inventories at retail outlets indicated that most businesses were able
to keep stocks in balance. Still, there were scattered reports of retailers canceling orders or
asking manufacturers to warehouse deliveries until existing inventories are cleared. Contacts
noted that orders for back-to-school and Christmas merchandise were running lower than last
year in anticipation of slower sales.
Services and Tourism Districts reporting on the services sector indicated continued weak demand in June and
July. In Dallas, Cleveland, and San Francisco, demand for business services, including
advertising, computing and data processing services, and temporary employment agencies, was
stagnant or declining in recent months, resulting in employment reductions in some areas. In
Cleveland and Dallas, transportation and shipping activity declined further in June and July, as

 iii
businesses continued to reduce orders in an effort to control inventories. Accounting, insurance,
and legal firms also saw demand soften in some Districts, prompting more rigorous monitoring
of payroll costs and other expenses. Dallas noted a pickup in demand for legal services related
in part to energy market developments and increased bankruptcy filings. Layoffs and slower economic growth reportedly damped tourism in many parts of the
country. Many Districts noted that airline bookings, hotel occupancies, and hotel room rates fell
in recent months. However, hotels principally struggled with a decline in business travel as
companies worked to cut costs in light of slower earnings growth.
Manufacturing Manufacturing activity declined further in recent weeks, as producers responded to
ongoing weakness in demand and worked to balance inventories. Reports of reduced work
hours, lost overtime, forced furloughs, planned shutdowns, and layoffs were pervasive. Nearly
every District reported that new orders and shipments for durable and non-durable manufactured
products remained sluggish during the recent survey period, with declines recorded for producers
in some sectors. Weakness was especially evident among producers of apparel and textiles,
computers, semiconductors, steel, and telecommunications gear. In addition to conditions in the
domestic economy, Districts attributed the current malaise in manufacturing to softening
international demand for U.S. goods- particularly in Europe and Asia. On the up side, Districts
reported that producers were making progress in running down their excess inventories.
Real Estate and Construction Conditions in commercial real estate markets softened in several Districts in June and
July, in keeping with slow economic growth. Nine Districts reported increased office vacancies
in metropolitan areas in the second quarter, with signs of additional weakening in July. A

 number of Districts noted that the swing in market conditions was due in part to an increase in sublease space. The rise in vacancies reportedly made it a buyers market in some metropolitan areas. However, most Districts noted little movement in posted lease rates, with landlords opting for one-time inducements such as a free month's rent or property upgrades to attract tenants. In San Francisco, where commercial lease rates have declined, contacts noted that prospective tenants appear to be waiting for rates to fall further. Rising vacancies damped new construction activity in a number of areas. Districts indicated that residential real estate markets generally remained stable in recent
months, though signs of weakness were apparent in some regions. Atlanta, Cleveland,
Minneapolis, New York, Richmond, and St. Louis reported continued brisk demand for low and
moderately priced homes; one District reported that homes "priced right" continued to sell
quickly, often attracting multiple bidders. In Boston, Chicago, and San Francisco, demand
remained stable but weakness in the high-end market was noted. Dallas and Kansas City
reported flat to slower growth in home sales, with some concerns about rising inventories. In
general, Districts attributed the continued strength of residential real estate in part to lower
mortgage interest rates.
Agriculture and Natural Resources Reports on agricultural conditions were mixed across the Districts. Atlanta, Kansas City
and St. Louis highlighted generally good conditions in their regions, with some crop yields
coming in better than expected. Dry weather was having an adverse effect on farmers and
ranchers in the Cleveland, Chicago, Dallas, and Richmond Districts. San Francisco reported
favorable growing conditions, but ongoing struggles against low prices, weak export demand,
and high energy costs.

Banking and Finance Loan demand was flat to down in most Districts in recent weeks. However, the
composition of the slowdown differed by region. In Kansas City and Philadelphia, commercial
and industrial lending picked up, while consumer lending declined. Declines in lending in
Atlanta, Chicago, and Richmond were largely in the commercial sector. In St. Louis, all types of
loans declined, although the most pronounced reductions were in consumer borrowing. In
Cleveland and New York, loan demand remained relatively flat, as both consumers and
businesses curtailed borrowing. Several Districts reported increases in home mortgage lending. Overall, Districts characterized financial markets as cautious, with both borrowers and
lenders pulling back in response to economic uncertainty. There were some reports of
deteriorating credit quality, particularly for credits to manufacturing and agricultural businesses.
A number of Districts reported that lenders had tightened standards in recent weeks, particularly
for business loans.
Labor Markets, Wages, and Prices Most Districts reported that conditions in labor markets remained steady or loosened
somewhat in recent weeks. Layoffs in many high-tech manufacturing and service firms boosted
the number of highly skilled workers applying for jobs through temporary employment agencies.
Employers in a number of Districts noted greater ease in finding and keeping qualified workers. Looser labor markets in most Districts helped to contain wage pressures in recent
months. However, benefit costs rose, particularly for health and other forms of insurance
coverage. Rising insurance premiums and the slowing economy reportedly prompted some
employers to reevaluate benefit packages. Kansas City reported that firms were working on
ways to reduce employee benefits such as free parking and health club memberships.

 Fuel and energy prices fell in June and July in most Districts, lessening the burden on
businesses and easing pressure on consumer budgets. Lower gasoline prices allowed shippers
and truckers to reduce or remove fuel surcharges imposed earlier this year. Lower energy costs
also contributed to price declines for a number of manufactured goods. However, upward price
pressure was reported for pharmaceuticals, various services, and single-family housing in some
regions. In addition, retail electricity rates were up sharply in California in June, as previously
authorized rate hikes took effect. In general, however, declining input costs and stiff domestic
and foreign competition continued to restrain consumer prices.

 I-1 FIRST DISTRICT - BOSTON The First District economy continues to slow. A majority of contacts in the retail and
manufacturing sectors report declines in business activity compared with a year ago. Insurance
companies say demand has slowed but not declined. Residential real estate contacts say housing markets
across New England are strong although softer than a year ago. Prices for most goods other than housing
are reported to be flat to down compared with a year ago. Most respondents indicate that they are
stepping up efforts to cut costs.
Retail Most retail respondents report that sales were flat or down during the May through July period
compared with a year earlier. These results were generally worse than expected, yet inventories are
mostly said to be close to desired levels. Most contacted sectors (discount retail, tourism, home and
office furniture, computer and office technology products, office and art supplies) say consumer demand
is anemic. However, sellers of building materials and hardware report modest growth in sales. Employment levels and wage rates are mostly said to be holding steady. However, some retailers
say that they plan to shrink employment through attrition or shift more toward part-time help. Most
report that it is now much easier than last year to hire replacement help and seasonal workers. Retail
contacts say that they are not raising selling prices and they are seeing only sporadic increases in vendor
prices. Most indicate that their profit margins are holding; however, retailers selling technology products
are discounting prices, which has reduced profit margins slightly compared with last year. Retail respondents expect little growth in the economy in the next year, and most say that they are
not expanding their operations in 2001. The mood is cautious; while they no longer expect a rebound in
the second half, they hope for some improvement late this year.
Manufacturing and Related Services Close to two-thirds of First District manufacturing contacts report that recent sales or orders are
down from a year earlier; only about one-third report increases. Expectations about future revenues vary

 I-2
considerably, but virtually all contacts are taking new steps to reduce costs. Reports from makers of computer hardware, communications gear, and semiconductor-related
equipment have deteriorated noticeably, and some of these contacts are not expecting much recovery until
late 2002. Manufacturers of other types of equipment are less gloomy but nevertheless cite examples of
customers eliminating discretionary purchases or demanding concessionary terms. One contact that sells
a broad range of parts and supplies to manufacturers describes the environment as the worst in 30 years.
On the other hand, several manufacturers are heartened that their business, while down from a year ago,
does not appear to be deteriorating further. These include makers of paper products and residential
construction components. By contrast with the general trends, demand for pharmaceuticals, medical equipment,
publications, aircraft parts, and defense equipment has continued to increase. However, several contacts
point to vulnerabilities in aviation-related business, and one producer of medical equipment has noticed a
recent weakening. Across a range of industries, manufacturers are concerned about deteriorating
conditions in foreign markets, particularly Europe and Latin America. Respondents say their selling prices and materials costs generally are flat or down. Some indicate
that their corporate customers are pressuring them for more favorable terms. They in turn are applying
similar pressures on their suppliers. Almost all manufacturing respondents report initiatives to control or reduce labor costs. Actions
vary from company to company but include layoffs, furloughs, controls on new hires, and restrictions on
pay increases. Most contacts say that capital spending is slated to be reduced this year. Many report
efforts to cut back on information technology expenditures.
Residential Real Estate Residential real estate markets in New England are still strong, although signs of softening are
emerging. The number of listings has begun to grow slowly, while the number of sales is starting to
decline. Real estate contacts indicate that the lower half of the market still enjoys very robust activity

 I-3
because low interest rates stimulate demand among potential buyers, while the level of activity at the top
of the market has slowed. Contacts in Rhode Island report that the market is as strong as ever, with most new listings selling
very quickly and the average sales price up from last year. In Vermont, the average sales price is slightly
higher than a year ago, but prices of new properties coming on the market are the same as those of
existing properties, indicating that prices have stabilized. New Hampshire contacts say the average
selling price rose 10 percent over the past year, but the number of sales dropped 12 percent during the
same period. Some respondents attribute the slowdown to seasonal rather than cyclical changes.
Insurance Insurance respondents report modest sales growth in the second quarter of 2001, similar to first-
quarter growth. In some cases, demand was generally off, while in others, falling demand for financial
products such as annuities and mutual funds offset increased insurance demand. One respondent sums up
the reasons for the slowdown as "the general economy, uncertainty over estate and other taxes, and
volatility in the financial markets." One major health insurer reports a large fall-off in revenues as they
reevaluate their service offerings in light of profitability changes. Most insurance contacts seem relatively downbeat about their company's outlook. One
respondent said that they are "more uneasy" now than three months ago because they had expected to see
evidence of an upturn in the economy by now. Another said that they are "no more pessimistic" now than
earlier this year. Because of falling or lower-than-expected revenues, most respondents are in the process
of cutting costs. Some companies have made large workforce cutbacks (3 to 12 percent), while others are
instituting employment freezes with the possibility of cutbacks in the near future. Most insurance
contacts say capital and technology spending is relatively flat.

 II-1 SECOND DISTRICT-NEW YORK The District's economy has been generally sluggish since the last report, with the notable
exception of housing. Overall business costs remain subdued, aside from sharp increases in utility and
medical costs, and prices of final goods and services appear to have decelerated. Labor markets have
eased, especially in manufacturing and financial services; however, hiring activity remains fairly brisk
in a number of other service industries. Retail business remained soft in June and July, with general
merchandise chains reporting year-over-year declines in comparable-store sales. A number of contacts
say they are making a concerted effort to reduce inventories. Retail prices are said to be down slightly. Housing markets throughout the District continue to show considerable strength, with second-
quarter selling prices in most areas running well ahead of a year ago. In contrast, commercial real estate
markets slackened substantially in the second quarter-particularly in New York City, where
availability rates have risen sharply and asking rents have fallen. Similarly, Manhattan's hotel
occupancy rate fell to a six-year low in the second quarter, while room rates registered their steepest
decline in nearly ten years. Finally, bankers report an increase in consumer delinquency rates, steady
loan demand, and some tightening in credit standards, except on home mortgages.
Consumer Spending General merchandise retailers indicate that sales were below plan in both June and July, and that
same-store sales were generally lower than a year earlier; however, within the group, discounters tended
to fare somewhat better. Apparel sales were mixed but generally weak, with women's apparel a bit
stronger than other categories. One large discount chain notes that more customers seemed to be opting
for private-label and lowest-priced merchandise lines. Both furniture and soft-goods for the home were
described as particularly sluggish. A major home-improvement retailer notes some improvement in the
tone of business in June and July-with particular strength in sales of energy-efficient products-
though sales were still described as anemic. Another contact noted a weather-related pickup in sales

 II-2
of air-conditioners and lawn and garden merchandise. One large retail chain reports a moderate but noticeable pickup in sales from customers who
have received their tax rebate, based on a preliminary survey of shoppers. However, most retail contacts
expect the current round of tax rebates to have only a modest effect on sales. While a few contacts report that inventories are a little high, most describe current levels as
satisfactory-largely due to steep markdowns. A number of retailers indicate a concerted effort to
reduce inventories in response to diminished sales expectations, and most major chains are scaling back
orders for the upcoming back-to-school and Christmas seasons. Both prices and merchandise costs
were reported to be flat to down modestly, led by declines in apparel prices. A number of retailers say
they are encountering rising costs of labor (especially medical insurance) and utilities.
Construction and Real Estate Housing markets across the District continue to show vigor, though residential construction
activity slowed somewhat in the second quarter. Multi-family housing permits fell substantially in June
on a seasonally adjusted basis; for the second quarter overall multi-family permits fell by about a third
from first-quarter levels and were more than 20 percent lower than a year ago. Most of the decline
reflects a return to more normal levels of activity in New York City, following two boom years. Single-
family housing permits also declined in June, and were down 5 percent in the quarter-compared with
both the first quarter and a year earlier. A homebuilder in upstate New York indicates that business has
been strong and that it is increasing production. In contrast, homebuilders in northern New Jersey also
say that demand remains strong but that construction activity is being limited by high costs and a
shortage of available land. The market for existing homes has continued to be quite firm since the last report. According
to separate reports from a leading New York City appraisal firm and a local real estate board, prices of
prime Manhattan co-ops and condos continued to edge up in the second quarter. Compared with a year

 II-3
earlier, selling prices were up considerably, although the number of transactions was down sharply. The
market may have strengthened as the quarter went on, as a major Manhattan real estate firm reports that
they sold more apartments in May and June than a year earlier, following sluggish activity in April; they
also note that prices remained well above a year ago. Single-family home sales across New York State were mixed but generally strong in the second
quarter. The Albany and Buffalo areas, New York City and Long Island showed particular strength,
with both unit sales and selling prices up substantially from a year earlier. In contrast, in the Rochester
area, both unit sales and average selling prices were down from a year ago. There were signs of cooling
in high-priced Westchester County-unit sales were down sharply and price appreciation slowed from
last year's double-digit rate. More generally, across the District, realtors indicate that while the high
end of the housing market has shown some softening, the market for starter homes is particularly strong. In sharp contrast with the residential sector, commercial real estate markets softened further in
the second quarter. Manhattan's office market has slackened substantially: availability rates jumped
by nearly two percentage points in the last three months and asking rents declined at a nearly 10 percent
annual rate. The most dramatic weakening has occurred in the Midtown South area, where strong
leasing demand from dot-coms had driven up prices in recent years. Office markets in adjacent suburban areas have converged over the past year, with the slackest
areas strengthening and the tightest areas weakening. For example, Westchester County's office
vacancy rate fell from 15 percent in mid-2000 to 12 percent at the end of June. Over the same period,
neighboring Fairfield County's rate jumped from 7 percent to 12 percent. In Long Island and northern
New Jersey, vacancy rates have risen by about 2 percentage points over the past year, while asking rents
were flat to up moderately. In northern New Jersey, a substantial volume of office space is
expected to come onto the market in the year ahead, reflecting downsizing in the telecommunications
industry.

Other Business Activity A major New York City employment agency says that the local job market for mid-level office
workers is still fairly strong; however, there is less of a sense of urgency to hire than earlier this year
and salaries, which had been rising at a double-digit rate, have leveled off. This contact also reports that
financial services firms have scaled back recruiting substantially, but that hiring remains fairly brisk at
a variety of other service industry firms-especially law firms. Manhattan's hotel occupancy rate (seasonally-adjusted), fell to a six-year low of 80 percent in
the second quarter, down from 84 percent in the first quarter and 89 percent a year ago. The average
room rate was little changed on a quarterly basis but has fallen by about 5 percent over the past year. Although both occupancy rates and room rates are still considered to be at high levels, the declines over
the past year are the steepest since 1991. A number of New York State manufacturers indicate that weak export demand and increased
import competition (mainly from Asia) are hurting overall sales. In addition, some firms are being hurt
by a falloff in demand from customers in the telecommunications, high-tech, and steel industries.
Financial Developments Loan demand was little changed since the last report, according to the latest survey of Second
District banks. Demand for refinancing also leveled off, following widespread increases in the past few
surveys. On the supply side, bankers continued to report tightening standards for all types of loans
except residential mortgages. Both loan rates and deposit rates continued to fall across all categories
since the last report. Delinquency rates increased noticeably on consumer loans and moderately on
nonresidential mortgages; however, there was a moderate decline in delinquencies on home-mortgages.

 III-1 THIRD DISTRICT - PHILADELPHIA Third District businesses on the whole reported little or no improvement in July
compared with June. In some sectors activity was below year-ago levels. Manufacturers
reported declines in shipments and orders during the month. Retail sales were mixed.
General merchandise sales were flat compared with June and down from July of last year,
but sales of automobiles increased from June to July. Bank loan volumes edged down
during the month, but mortgage refinancing remained strong. Tourism activity
throughout the District has been slower this summer than last, and business travel has
declined sharply from a year ago. Businesses in the District generally expect some slight improvement in the fall.
Manufacturers forecast an increase in orders within the next six months, although they
are planning only small increases in employment and working hours. Retailers look for a
pickup in sales in the fall, but most do not anticipate significant gains. Bankers expect
lending in all major credit categories to be virtually flat for at least several more months.
MANUFACTURING Third District manufacturing activity continued to decline in July. Shipments
from plants in the region fell, and new orders edged down. The falloff in orders was
slight in most manufacturing sectors, but declines were widespread among producers of
transportation equipment, metal products, and wood products. Manufacturing firms in
the region continue to experience declining demand from foreign countries. Several
noted significant easing in orders from Europe. Firms that supply the
telecommunications industry with a variety of products continued to report very weak
demand from that sector. On balance, manufacturers scaled back working hours and
reduced employment during July. Manufacturers indicated that prices of inputs were
nearly steady in July, and prices for the products they make moved down. Nearly six out
of ten of the firms polled in July reported that their inventories were above desired levels.
Four out of ten indicated that their inventory levels were satisfactory. Excess inventories
appeared to be especially prevalent among producers of wood products, furniture,

 III-2
industrial materials, and primary metals. Overall, firms in the region plan to reduce
inventories in the next six months by keeping production low and shipping from
inventory. Manufacturers expect business conditions to improve during the next six months.
Firms in nearly all of the major manufacturing sectors in the region expect demand for
their products to increase, although makers of wood products, industrial machinery, and
instruments anticipate further declines in orders. Area manufacturers forecast a rise in
order backlogs in the next six months, but they plan only slight increases in employment
and working hours, on balance.
RETAIL Retail sales in the Third District in July were generally steady, but down from the
level in the same month last year. Overall, retailers contacted for this report indicated
that their sales have been flat in recent weeks. Merchants said customer traffic has been
slow and shoppers have curtailed impulse purchasing. Reports from stores in the region
indicated that, on balance, general merchandise sales in the region in July were about 5
percent below the year-ago rate, in current dollars. Several stores reported steeper year-
over-year declines. Some merchants noted that summer merchandise had not been in
strong demand for most of July because the region's weather had been cooler than
normal. Higher temperatures toward the end of the month did little to boost sales,
however, and stores have begun their usual clearance sales of summer goods. Store
officials have been cautious in sales plans since spring, and they have generally kept
inventory levels from becoming excessive. Store executives see few signs that sales might strengthen significantly. Most of
those contacted for this report anticipate a slow recovery in sales during the fall selling
season. Stocking of fall merchandise has been restrained, and some retailers expressed
concern that planned inventories might not be adequate if consumer demand increases
strongly. Auto dealers generally indicated that sales picked up a bit in July compared with
June. Sales of imported automobiles have been relatively stronger than sales of domestic
automobiles. Manufacturers' incentives continue to support a relatively high sales rate in

 III-3 most parts of the region, but some dealers in areas where unemployment has increased
reported recent declines in sales. FINANCE Total loan volume outstanding was edging down in July at Third District banks contacted for this report. Bank lending officers indicated that there had been some growth in commercial and industrial lending, but declines in consumer and real estate lending. Some bankers indicated that a significant portion of their new business loans
were for buyouts or reorganizations of local firms rather than for expansion. Consumer lending of all types has moved down, although mortgage refinancing activity has
continued at a fairly high level. Bankers in the Third District expect overall loan volumes to be nearly flat for at
least the next few months. Commercial bank lending officers expressed heightened
caution with respect to the creditworthiness of potential business borrowers.
Nevertheless, some banks are actively seeking new opportunities to extend credit to well-
capitalized businesses in all industries, including commercial real estate.
TRAVEL AND TOURISM Travel and tourism officials in the Third District reported that tourist and
recreational business throughout the region has edged down from last year. Lodging
occupancy has not achieved last year's levels in most resort areas. Reports from hotels
and other lodging businesses in some areas indicated that advance bookings of rooms
have been declining since the summer vacation season began. Travel and visitor bureaus
in the region generally noted significant declines in business travel compared with last
year. In particular, attendance at recent conventions and other business meetings has
fallen below anticipated levels.

 IV-1 FOURTH DISTRICT - CLEVELAND
General Business Conditions The Fourth District economy continues to move laterally, with large gains in a
few areas offsetting modest declines in many sectors. Weakness in the region remains
centered in manufacturing, although industrial softness has begun to exert downward
pressure on other industries, such as shipping and construction. Unemployment remains low, although District labor markets have loosened
considerably this year and wage growth is reported to have moderated. Demand for
temporary workers is off 10 percent to 15 percent from the levels seen in May and June.
This falloff, combined with a seasonal increase in students seeking summer work, has
created an excess supply of temporary workers.
Manufacturing Conditions in the manufacturing sector continue to deteriorate. Steel orders
remain soft and inventory levels are still high. Moreover, a recent slowdown in the
construction and appliance-manufacturing industries is expected to exacerbate the already
weak demand for steel. Steel prices have fallen at least 25 percent since a year ago, and
recent attempts by some steel makers to boost prices 5 percent per ton have not stuck.
Computer and telecommunications firms have also been hard hit. Elsewhere in manufacturing, orders, production, and employment have shown
little overall growth and overtime at many firms has been cut. Sources are not optimistic
that industrial activity will improve soon; accordingly, capital outlays in manufacturing
are well below levels seen a year ago.
Retail Sales Retail activity in the District is mixed, although signs of weakness appear to
outweigh signs of strength. While a few chain stores report extremely strong sales, most
others appear to be faring poorly. Home decorative merchandise, floral and nursery
goods, and some apparel items are selling well, but sales in most other categories remain

 IV-2
soft. Heavy price discounting is under way to help boost sales and thus slow rapidly
rising inventories. Most retail contacts are pessimistic about conditions in the immediate
future and see the possibility of sales declines through the back-to-school season. Aggressive manufacturer incentives helped to bolster sales at District auto dealers
in June-the highest month on record for many dealers. Year-to-date sales (through
June) appear reasonably strong, and dealer profits are on the rise. Still, sales activity
appears to have peaked in June as the effectiveness of pricing programs waned. In
general, auto sales were down between June and July, and additional price discounts are
expected in August as manufacturers prepare inventories for the new model year.
Construction The sustained strength of home sales this year continues to surprise District home
builders. Recent new home construction levels compare favorably with the historic peaks
achieved in the first half of 2000. However, some firms report less customer traffic than
this time last year. Most commercial construction categories report weakness. Demand for office
space, for example, seems to have dropped dramatically, particularly in central Ohio.
Demand for retail and industrial space has fallen across the District, and vacancy rates for
commercial building segments continue to rise. According to one source, the low level of
new construction inquiries suggests that improvement in this sector is not imminent. Overall, materials prices are said to be stable, although lumber prices have
fluctuated widely and drywall prices have fallen further. Labor availability is mixed by
trade: Unskilled workers are in ample supply, but shortages of framers, roofers, and
masons have been reported.
Trucking and Shipping Trucking and shipping tonnage in June and July was well off its level of this time
last year. Shipping activity has felt the slowdown in manufacturing. Shippers note a
larger-than-usual number of auto-related plant shutdowns and reduced production at
machine tool, steel, and heavy equipment manufacturers. Shipments of retail goods are
reported to have improved somewhat. Planned capital expenditures are down for the

 IV-3
year, and sources point to significant excess capacity in the industry. Bankruptcies
among shippers have increased in the past year. Fuel costs have dropped substantially since the last District report, leading to a
reduction in energy-associated surcharges by shipping companies.
Agriculture Recent dry weather has had an adverse effect on corn crops in the northern part of
the District, and farmers expect yields to drop 5 percent to 10 percent as a result. Lower-
than-average rainfall has led to poor growth in grazing pastures, forcing some farmers to
dip into their winter feed supplies to maintain livestock. Dairy prices remain high,
although production has fallen recently with the dry, hot weather-daily milk production
is down as much as 10 percent for the season in some parts of the District. Still, farmers appear to be faring better financially than last year at this time:
Some have been able to make capital improvements to their farms this year, and very few
banks report delinquencies on loans to farmers.
Banking Fourth District banks report mixed developments in the aftermath of the recent
interest rate reductions. Commercial loan activity is up for half of our sample, down in
the other half; however, commercial loan applications have picked up in the past month
or so. Consumer borrowing has been steady over the past six months, though some banks
report growth in home equity lines of credit and new car lending. There has been no significant change in the rate of loan delinquencies at District
banks. Some bankers are concerned that recent increases in layoffs will pinch household
liquidity. The spread between lending and deposit rates has widened slightly.

 FIFTH DISTRICT-RICHMOND Overview: The Fifth District economy advanced at a slow pace in June and July, with moderate growth at services firms accounting for most of the increase. Demand for services grew at a steady pace, although firms said they were watching expenses closely. Retailers reported sharp drops in sales in recent weeks and they reduced employment in July. Manufacturing shipments and new orders continued to skid. Most manufacturers, however, remained optimistic that shipments would pick up by the end of the year. Residential realtors reported little change in home sales, while commercial realtors said that leasing and construction activity continued to weaken. Prices of manufactured
products were flat, and prices of services were modestly higher. In agriculture, hot and
dry weather stressed crops and pastures in many areas of the District, although rain swept across much of the region in late July. Retail: Retailers reported markedly lower revenues in recent weeks. Shopper
traffic in District stores dropped and big-ticket sales contracted sharply. A big-box
retailer in Gastonia, N.C. characterized sales as "stagnant" while a contact at a
department store in the low country of South Carolina reported very slow sales and a
cutback in payroll hours. An automobile dealer in the eastern panhandle of West Virginia
described sales as "off a little bit" and noted that his company had reduced inventories.
Employment in the retail sector declined in recent weeks and wage growth moderated. A
big-box retailer in North Carolina said that his store had hired a number of people laid off
from other employers in the area-some at substantially lower pay than they earned in
their previous jobs. Services: Many services businesses across the District reported moderately
higher revenues in June and July. However, businesses were closely monitoring their
overhead in an effort to preserve their operating margins. Several firms reported less
business spending on corporate travel, including car rentals and hotel bookings. A travel
agent providing business services in Greenville, S.C. said demand had dropped slightly,
and a Baltimore, Md. financial services contact said there was concern among clients that
the economy may not have bottomed out. A contact at an accounting firm reported
discounting their prices to keep employees busy and said they are "managing the
headcount" for the first time in several years. Employment in the sector was flat in June

but picked up in recent weeks. Average wages were reported to be rising at a modest
pace, but in some cases, more slowly than in recent years. Manufacturing: The manufacturing sector continued to struggle in June and
July, with continued declines in shipments and new orders. Production downshifted
notably at firms in the textiles, lumber, furniture, paper, and electronics industries. A strong dollar and tenacious foreign competition continued to affect the textiles industry-
a textiles manufacturer in North Carolina said that sales in recent months were the lowest in his memory and he is not optimistic about a turnaround soon. A plastics manufacturer
in North Carolina also reported slow summer sales, but he expected a pickup in activity
in the fall. Layoffs in the furniture and textile industries continued. On the price front,
several contacts noted lower energy prices; overall prices paid for raw materials were flat
in July. Finance: District loan officers described lending activity as sluggish in June and
July. A Richmond, Va. banker said that business lending was somewhat weak and she
noted that many businesses were grappling with problems caused by a sputtering
economy. She characterized business conditions as "choppy"-with "lots of companies
doing well and lots of companies doing poorly." A Greenville, S.C. contact also
described lending as "somewhat weak," and noted that he continued to keep a close eye
on industries, including textiles, health care, and construction, that, in his opinion, might
take a turn for the worse. He reported some increase in loan spreads as credit conditions
tightened and fewer of his competitors were making loans at bargain basement interest
rates. Residential mortgage lending expanded at a moderate pace-a South Carolina
banker said that mortgage interest rates remained attractive and he expected lending to be
moderately strong into the fall if rates do not rise. Real Estate: Residential realtors and homebuilders reported little change in home
sales since our last report. Several builders in the District said they had seen some
strengthening in the market for low to middle-priced homes. A homebuilder reported
"extremely brisk" sales in the Hampton Roads area. But a builder in Myrtle Beach, S.C.
noted a weakness "that wasn't there before" in sales in the mid-priced market. Sales
prices remained generally steady throughout the District; an exception was a Greensboro,
N.C. realtor who said that new home prices had fallen there. A contact in Richmond, Va.

said that prices of multi-family homes purchased as investment property had risen in
recent months. Although most contacts reported little change in labor costs, builders in
the Carolinas reported a substantial increase in lumber and drywall prices. Commercial realtors across the District reported that leasing and construction
activity generally continued to weaken in recent weeks. Office and industrial leasing was
softer, reflecting sagging business conditions in the high-tech and manufacturing sectors.
Contacts in Northern Virginia and Raleigh, N.C. generally reported a "tenant's market"
in office space due to the high-tech shakeout in those areas. Although contract rental
rates were relatively stable across commercial sectors, effective rental rates eased in the
office and industrial sectors and landlords offered various concessions, such as a month's
free rent, to entice tenants. New construction remained sluggish, but contacts in
Charlotte, N.C. and Richmond, Va. were "guardedly optimistic" that construction activity
would soon pick up. In addition, a contact in Baltimore said that commercial contractors'
"order books" were full for the next twelve to fifteen months. Tourism: Tourism was flat since our last report. A contact on the Outer Banks of
North Carolina reported a brisk business in beach property rentals in July. Hoteliers in
both Virginia Beach and Myrtle Beach, however, said they had to discount prices early in th
the week of July 4 in order to increase bookings. In addition, a tornado struck a resort
area in Myrtle Beach on July 6 th and damaged several hotels and put a dent in that area's
tourist business. Tourism in Baltimore, Md. also received a setback from a bit of bad luck
in July-a fire in a railroad tunnel caused the postponement of three Baltimore Orioles
games at Camden Yards and the cancellation of bookings at nearby hotels. Temporary Employment: Contacts at temporary employment agencies reported
mixed demand for workers in recent weeks. A manager in Hagerstown, Md. said that
activity at her agency was very weak and she did not expect it to strengthen over the next
few weeks. She said her customers were experiencing very slow sales, which had
curtailed demand for temporary workers. In contrast, a Charleston, W.V. contact said he
had seen an increase in demand for temporary workers from the medical industry, in part
because of the transcription services his firm now offered. An agency contact in Raleigh,
N.C. reported a strong demand for analysts, research chemists, and technicians for

placement in the biotechnology and pharmaceuticals industries. Wages remained
unchanged since our last report. Agriculture: Generally hot, dry weather caused a substantial decline in soil
moisture levels across much of the District and threatened crop development in June and
most of July. However, significant rainfall occurred over many areas of the District in
recent days, renewing hopes of higher yields. Livestock producers in Virginia reported
that they might begin supplemental feeding soon because of poor pasture conditions.
Some cattlemen in South Carolina weaned calves early because dry pastures had not
provided adequate nutrition to nursing cows, but crops there were reported to be in
generally good to excellent condition. Crops were also in good condition in West
Virginia, where rain has been plentiful in recent weeks, and has caused flooding in some
areas.

 VI-1 SIXTH DISTRICT - ATLANTA Summary: Contacts throughout the Sixth District suggest that economic activity was sluggish in June and July. Retail sales results were weak and volume remained supported by heavy discounting. The District's single-family housing market continued to perform well, whereas there was significantly less commercial construction than a year earlier. Manufacturing output continued to fall, resulting in further job losses. Loan activity was mixed; residential lending was strong, while commercial lending was slow. Business travel softened throughout
the District, while leisure travel remained strong in south Florida. Consumer Spending: Retail contacts across the District reported that sales during June
were weak, but noted a slight improvement in early July. However, discounting has been
widespread, and many retailers reported that inventories remained higher than desired. The
outlook for retail sales in the third quarter remains subdued, but several retailers were hopeful
that income tax refund checks would boost back-to-school sales. Auto sales remained generally soft in June, although an increase in sales activity in early
July was noted. Industry contacts indicated that regional sales for some manufacturers were
weaker, and inventory levels higher, than in the nation as a whole. However, sales of luxury cars
and some SUV models did improve in response to generous incentives offered by vehicle
manufacturers. Sales of lower priced and fuel-efficient models have also improved. Construction: Most areas of the District continued to post solid home sales in June, with
particular strength in south Florida. Overall home construction and sales in June were near the
high levels of a year ago. Neither real estate agents nor builders anticipate a sharp downturn in
the market.

 VI-2 At the same time, the commercial real estate market continued to weaken. Sublease
space has increased in both office and industrial markets across the District, resulting in higher
vacancy rates and increased use of rental incentives. Office, industrial, and retail construction
has slowed significantly and is expected to remain subdued through year-end. Few new
commercial construction projects have been announced. Manufacturing: Manufacturing continued to contract through July, and contacts noted
that firms are holding back on capital investments because of the economic slowdown. Reports
from Georgia, Tennessee, and Louisiana indicated ongoing problems in the textile and apparel
sectors with mill closings and reduced factory workweeks. Further weakness was reported in the
paper industry, although softwood price increases have stimulated the lumber industry. Some
telecommunication firms continued to cut payrolls in response to reduced orders, and there was
further vertical consolidation within the technology sector. In Louisiana, the petrochemical
industry slowed because of higher input prices. Required environmental retrofits to refineries are
producing some job growth, and vehicle production and component supply industries continued
with expansion plans. Shipyards reported several new commercial and government contracts,
whereas some pleasure boat manufacturers have cut production as a result of sluggish demand. Tourism and Business Travel: Reports from the hospitality and tourism sector were
mixed in June and July, with some strength in leisure travel and weakness in business travel.
Contacts in south Florida reported that leisure travel remained healthy, equaling last year's
record pace. In central Florida, resort tax collections were down from a year ago and occupancy
rates have fallen. In other parts of the District, contacts noted that convention business was
sluggish because of shrinking corporate travel budgets.

 VI-3 Financial: Recent loan activity was mixed. Residential lending remained strong in parts
of the District with continued growth in refinancing. However, auto-related installment lending
has slowed, and commercial lending for new construction and equipment purchases remained
slow. Reports indicated a modest thawing in venture capital activity during June and July. Wages and Prices: Most reports indicated that companies are handling the slowdown by
cutbacks in hours worked and by eliminating temporary workers. Outside of manufacturing,
layoffs are still the exception rather than the rule. Wage pressures continued to subside. Some
contacts are avoiding new hires and have not replaced employees who have vacated their jobs.
In the technology sector, employers have become increasingly cautious in their hiring decisions. Contacts cited few instances of price escalation in June and July. Reports indicated
significant energy price reductions and continued price discounting at retail stores. However,
lumber prices in July remained higher than a year earlier, and drywall prices increased sharply
during July. House prices and healthcare costs have also continued to increase. Agriculture: Orange production in Florida is seen reaching robust levels in 2001/02 due
to ample rain that drenched parts of the Southeast during June and July. However, citrus
producers continue to contend with tree disease problems that may yet limit yields. Local peanut
growers are also facing increased uncertainty. The peanut farm quota system is under
congressional review and peanut exporters have experienced strong price-competition from
producers in China and Argentina.

 VII-1 SEVENTH DISTRICT-CHICAGO Summary. Overall economic activity in the Seventh District was sluggish in June and
July, and signs of any pickup in price inflation were generally absent from contact reports.
Consumer spending in the Midwest was softer than in some other regions, and consumers
appeared to be opting for less expensive goods and services. The availability of office space
continued to increase in many areas as demand waned, while housing market activity remained
relatively robust. While some key manufacturing industries have made substantial progress in
working down excessive inventories, production remained very weak. Lending activity was
mixed as household loan demand continued strong, particularly for mortgage credit, while
businesses remained very cautious. Employers were finding it increasingly less difficult to hire
and retain workers in most areas, and wage pressures subsided further. Crop conditions were
generally less favorable than last year, and crop prospects and prices were expected to be
particularly sensitive to weather developments for the remainder of the growing season. Consumer spending. Consumer spending generally softened in June and July, and many
retailers were lowering sales expectations for the fall. Many contacts noted that consumers were
opting to purchase less expensive goods and services. A casual dining contact suggested that
customers were "trading down the menu," a large chain of specialty home items reported that
shoppers were "buying at the lower end of the product line," and discount chains continued to
outperform general merchandisers. Several contacts suggested that sales results in the Midwest
were not as strong as some other regions. Some stores were said to be canceling orders and there
were reports that more retailers did not want to take delivery of merchandise, asking shippers to
warehouse the items on trailers. One contact with a large trucking company suggested that there
was "lots of inventory in the pipeline," and many retailers were planning on heavier use of in-
store promotional and discounting activity in coming months. While some merchants were
gearing up for "tax rebate" promotions, a contact with one large national chain did not expect a
significant increase in sales, but added "we do want to get our share" of whatever boost the
industry may get. Light vehicle sales in the District were softer in June and July, and appeared to
be weaker than national results. Contacts indicated that the tourism and travel industry was

 VII-2
actually benefiting from the economic slowdown as more of the region's pleasure travelers opted
to stay closer to home. On the other hand, less business travel resulted in higher hotel vacancy
rates in at least one major metro area, and airline bookings for the third quarter were "not looking
good" according to one contact. Construction/real estate. Real estate and construction activity was mixed in June and
July. Building owners and commercial real estate contacts reported that office vacancy rates
were increasing and the amount of sublease space coming back on the market (which is not
reflected in vacancy rates) also continued to rise. With more space available in virtually every
metro market, some landlords in softer markets began offering concessions, such as free months
or upgraded amenities. Many landlords, however, were holding the line on rents with some
noting that the demand was not there, regardless of price. Most contacts suggested that
decisionmakers were reluctant to make long-term commitments until it was clear that overall
economic activity was picking up. While leasing activity was down notably, sales of office
buildings picked up in the Chicago and Indianapolis markets toward the end of the second
quarter. Development of "big box" retail space continued virtually unabated, according to
contacts, despite slower growth in consumer spending in recent quarters. The residential
construction and real estate market continued to show remarkable resiliency in the face of slower
economic activity and increasing joblessness. Most contacts reported that both new and existing
home sales were off slightly from last year, but remained at high levels. This strength was
generally attributed to very attractive mortgage interest rates. Virtually all of the builders and
realtors contacted suggested that there was some slackening demand for higher-priced homes.
Realtors in several markets noted that the number of listings increased in May and June, and
homes that were "priced right" continued to sell quickly, often with multiple bidders. Manufacturing. Overall manufacturing activity remained very weak, but contacts
reported substantial progress in working down excessive inventories in some key industry
segments. Nationally, light vehicle sales were relatively strong, although below last year's
historic highs, and manufacturers were generally "happy" with inventories of both passenger cars
and light trucks. The pricing environment remained competitive, however, and incentive
spending picked up as automakers were reluctant to sacrifice market share to foreign nameplates.

 VII-3 Steel production continued to "bump along the bottom" but may have picked up modestly in July, according to one industry analyst. Contacts noted that the industry's inventory correction was at or near completion, as inventories on the docks and those held by customers were at very low levels. A contact with a large maker of telecommunications equipment reported that excessive inventories had been worked down and should be at desired levels by the end of August. Despite continued weak orders, this contact had a "gut feeling" that the industry will begin recovering in the fourth quarter, although not at the strong rates of growth realized in 1999 and early 2000. By contrast, new orders for heavy trucks and heavy equipment continued to
move lower in year-ago comparisons. The robust housing market helped keep shipments strong for gypsum wallboard makers, but the industry continued to be plagued by overcapacity resulting
from large amounts of capacity that came on line over the last few years. Due in part to softness
in office markets, shipments of office furniture were off sharply from last year, and one industry
analyst suggested that 2001 will show the sharpest decline in shipments for the industry since
records were first tallied in the early 1970s. Banking/finance. Overall lending activity remained slow, as businesses remained very
cautious in their borrowing and spending decisions. Business lending activity was generally
described as "soft" and "sluggish." There were a few new signs of deteriorating quality in some
banks' commercial loan portfolios, much of it related to conditions in the manufacturing sector.
One lender noted a rise in "watch/problem" loans, while others reported adding to their loan loss
reserves. This was to be expected, according to one banker, who said that twice as many of his
customers were reporting losses on their balance sheets as last year. In contrast, one lender noted
that demand from small and medium-sized businesses was "better-than-expected," while another
suggested that venture capital activity was picking up and was expected to continue to do so
through the third quarter. Household lending activity was best described by one contact as
"holding up." Resilient strength in mortgage lending continued to surprise most bankers, despite
some moderation in refinancing activity. Credit card borrowing picked up modestly and
consumers were paying off less of that debt each month, according to one contact. There were
mixed reports on consumer loan quality with some banks indicating that consumer defaults were

 VII-4 decreasing (partly as a result of the refinancing activity) while others suggested that delinquencies were increasing. Labor markets. Demand for workers in the District softened further in June and July as firms tightened staffing to improve earnings, and most signs pointed toward continued soft demand in coming months. Many contacts reported less difficulty finding and retaining workers as the broad-based labor shortages of recent years had subsided. Manufacturing payrolls continued to decrease and layoff announcements remained prevalent throughout the District.
Reports suggested that demand for financial, real estate, and legal professionals diminished in recent weeks as business deal-making activity slowed. Another report indicated that some
employers were canceling or significantly curtailing fall recruiting activities at college campuses
in parts of the District. At the same time, indexes of help-wanted advertising in local newspapers
and surveys of hiring plans suggested that employers were reluctant to add to their payrolls early
in the third quarter. While slacker labor markets helped ease wage pressures, reports continued
of significantly higher health and other insurance costs. Agriculture. Crop conditions in the Seventh District generally were less favorable than
last year, when timely rainfall led to near record high crop production. The west and northwest
portions of the District had been most seriously affected by an early wet spring, followed by
damaging hot, dry weather recently. Crop conditions deteriorated sharply during the first three
weeks of July, driving grain prices higher. Scattered rainfall in late July, however, eased the
stress on crops in some areas, pushing prices back down before very hot and dry conditions
returned at the end of the month. Crop prospects, and prices, will remain especially susceptible
to weather vagaries for the remainder of the growing season.

 VIII-1 EIGHTH DISTRICT - ST. LOUIS
Summary Growth in the District economy remains slow, particularly in the manufacturing sector,
which is experiencing almost no growth. Retail sales are flat when compared with a year
earlier, although sales have picked up recently. Manufacturers report a further slowing of
activity, with accounts of layoffs and downsizing now outnumbering those of employment
increases. Residential real estate markets have remained strong, with sales and prices on the
rise. Commercial real estate markets have been mixed. Loans on the books of District banks
are down somewhat, although deposits have been rising. Loan delinquencies are up slightly,
but remain at manageable levels. Crops are generally in good-to-excellent condition around the
District. Recent rains have helped restore topsoil moisture levels.
Consumer Spending Retail sales in June and July are reported to be flat when compared with those of the
same period last year, although activity has been picking up since the beginning of the summer.
High-end kitchen and laundry appliances, as well as tools and supplies for home improvement,
have been posting strong sales. Automobile sales are mixed throughout the District. Dealers in
Little Rock and Louisville report softness, especially in sales of domestic autos. Memphis car
dealers, however, report recent sales increases, which they attribute to lower gas prices and
interest rates, as well as to more generous manufacturer incentives.
Manufacturing and Other Business Activity Growth in the manufacturing sector has slowed further throughout most of the District to
a barely perceptible rate. Reports of layoffs and downsizing are now outnumbering those of
employment increases. Firms in the furniture, chemical, and automobile parts industries have
laid off workers or closed plants because of reduced demand. Managers in these industries do
not expect sales to pick up until the first quarter of 2002. Steel manufacturers continue to face

 VIII-2
low prices due to excess supply. The trucking industry continues to face driver shortages and
some profit losses. A few trucking industry contacts have indicated, though, that the recent
declines in gas prices have prompted a moderate resurgence of activity. Information technology
and telecommunications firms are posting slow growth, with some layoffs and narrowing profit
margins. The distribution and logistic services industry is also experiencing a downturn, as large direct mail and package handling companies decrease employee hours and eliminate jobs
to cut costs. Contacts at some District power generation, food, and paper plants, on the other
hand, are reporting moderate growth and expansion.
Real Estate and Construction Residential real estate sales and median prices have continued to show strength in most
parts of the District over the past six weeks, which contacts attribute to mortgage rates
remaining relatively low and a usual seasonal upswing. Homes in the $150,000-to-$250,000
range have been the fastest sellers. A shortage of available homes still exists in several parts
of the District; the Memphis region, however, has seen a mild increase in housing inventories.
Real estate agents generally describe current markets as sellers' markets and expect them to
remain that way into the fall. Commercial real estate sales and leasing in the Memphis region
have rebounded from a slow start at the beginning of the year. Despite a recent uptick in the
demand for industrial space in the St. Louis and Louisville regions, a large amount of it is still
available, creating a buyers' market. A St. Louis contact has noted that the office absorption
rate has risen recently. Residential construction is steady in most of the District. With the market for skilled
construction workers still tight in parts of the District, some contacts have recently noted a
decline in the number of sub-contractor bids per project. In most District metropolitan areas,
June monthly building permit levels are down from their relatively strong May numbers. On a
year-to-date basis, more than half of the District's metro areas have June permit levels that are
up from a year earlier.

 VIII-3 Banking and Finance Total loans outstanding at a sample of small and mid-sized District banks are down modestly, falling 0.4 percent between early May and early July. This decline stems from weak consumer loans, which are down 1.3 percent over the same period. Commercial and industrial loans and real estate loans have remained essentially unchanged over the period, growing only 0.1 percent each. At the same time, total deposits at these banks are up 1.3 percent,
continuing a trend that started in late 2000. Several bankers report that loan delinquencies have been increasing, but remain at
manageable levels. Bankers also have recently tightened credit standards somewhat,
particularly for business loans. Many banks are looking into new programs and technologies to
increase non-interest income and reduce non-interest expenses.
Agriculture and Natural Resources The harvest of the District's winter wheat crop is now complete. Several Illinois contacts
describe the crop as disappointing; others in Illinois, however, consider it to be the best crop in
several years. Early USDA estimates indicate that 2001 wheat production and acreage
harvested are expected to be down by an average of almost 20 percent across District states. The corn, cotton, soybean, and rice crops are generally in good-to-excellent condition in
most of the District. In Missouri, however, the soybean and cotton crops are in only fair
condition. Contacts in Kentucky and Tennessee report that the tobacco crop is in mostly good-
to-excellent condition, despite minor disease problems. Although most District states experienced hot and dry weather in early July, widely
scattered showers later that month helped restore topsoil moisture to adequate levels, which
enhanced development of the corn, cotton, soybean, and rice crops. That said, small pockets
of dry soil persist in some areas of the southern part of the District.

 NINTH DISTRICT--MINNEAPOLIS
Economic Activity in the Ninth District is subdued. Manufacturing, commercial
construction, tourism and mining activities are down. Agriculture is mixed. Residential
real estate, consumer spending and energy exploration are up slightly. Several companies
announced layoffs; nevertheless, labor markets remain tight. Overall wage and price
increases are moderate. However, significant increases are reported in home prices, and
decreases are noted for gasoline and fertilizer.
Construction and Real Estate
Construction activity in the district is down slightly from a year earlier. Construction
contracts awarded in Minnesota and the Dakotas dropped 7 percent for the three-month
period ending in June compared with the same period last year. Vacancy rates for office
and industrial space in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area have increased about 2 percentage
points during the past year and are expected to increase by another 2 percentage points by
June 2002, according to a commercial real estate firm. Lease rates in downtown
Minneapolis are predicted to drop or remain flat. Representatives of commercial real estate
firms report new construction has slowed from a year ago in Missoula, Mont., as several
big box retailers are completing new stores. Homebuilding activity is higher compared with last year. Housing units authorized
increased 5 percent in the district for the three-month period ending in June compared with
a year earlier, including a 26 percent climb in multi-family units. Home sales were up 6
percent for the first half of 2001 compared with a year earlier in the Fargo, N.D. area and
are even with last year's record pace in Sioux Falls, S.D. A banker in the Upper Peninsula
of Michigan noted strong activity for new home purchases and construction, in part due to
low interest rates. According to a building association representative, Minneapolis-St. Paul
area builders are busy despite a 15 percent decline in permits for the first six months of
2001 compared with a year earlier.
Consumer Spending and Tourism
Overall district retail sales are level to up slightly. A major Minneapolis-based department
store retailer noted that overall same-store sales in June were flat compared with a year
earlier. A Minneapolis area-based retailer of women's apparel reported same-store sales up
4 percent in June compared with the same period last year. Sales at a Minneapolis-area
mall were up 4 percent for the first half of 2001 compared with the first half of last year.

 IX-2
Retail sales in rural Montana communities are sluggish. Auto sales are level compared
with a year ago in North Dakota, according to an auto dealer association representative. Tourism activity is down slightly from a year ago in many areas of the district. In
the Upper Peninsula of Michigan an official said it appears that tourists are spending less
in restaurants and stores compared with last year. In northwestern Wisconsin, tourism
activity was slow in June but picked up in July to normal levels, said a Chamber of
Commerce official. Visitor numbers were off at several major attractions in June compared
with last year in South Dakota, including a 3.5 percent decrease at Mount Rushmore.
Meanwhile, the tourism market in Montana is soft, according to a bank director.
Manufacturing
Overall manufacturing activity is down. A June purchasing manager survey by Creighton
University indicated very weak new orders in Minnesota, level manufacturing activity in
North Dakota and growth in South Dakota. As evidence, a ski-making facility in Minnesota
will close and production will move overseas; a beverage dispenser producer and a drill bit
manufacturer both plan to reduce production due to weak sales. A construction equipment
manufacturer in North Dakota shut down for one week to reduce inventory levels. An air
conditioner company plans to close a compressor facility in western Wisconsin. However, a
pasta producer is building a new manufacturing plant in North Dakota, and a new saw mill is
planned in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan. A geothermal heat-pump plant is under
construction in South Dakota.
Mining and Energy
The energy sector expanded, while the mining industry contracted. District oil and natural
gas exploration remains above last quarter levels. In addition, ethanol production is
increasing, and a new South Dakota plant is under construction. Meanwhile, iron ore
shipments in May were 10 percent below year-ago levels. Even though several iron ore
mines restarted production after closing for a few weeks earlier this summer, a major mine
plans to shut down for a few weeks this fall. Commodity prices have fallen for many
metals. A Montana copper mine and an aluminum smelter are still closed. However, a
Montana platinum/palladium mine remains at full production.
Agriculture
Certain agricultural prices are strong. The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA)
indicated that June prices compared with a year ago are higher for milk, broilers, cattle,

 IX-3
hogs and calves, but lower for eggs and turkeys. In addition, a South Dakota bank director
reported favorable hay prices. Even with the first cutting of the alfalfa crop essentially
complete, a Montana director noted a sell-off in cattle herds due to high hay costs. The USDA reported that corn and soybean crop progress is behind the five-year
average in Minnesota, South Dakota and Wisconsin. In addition, about a fifth of the
Minnesota corn and soybean crops are rated poor or very poor. In contrast, a North Dakota
bank director noted favorable crop conditions, and the USDA reported North Dakota oats,
barley, spring wheat and soybean progress ahead of the five-year average.
Employment, Wages and Prices
Several companies announced layoffs, and job openings are down. A major financial
services company plans to cut as many as 1,000 jobs over the next 15 months; about 500
workers will be laid off at a district-based airline; and a computer firm will eliminate about 100 positions in Minnesota. In North Dakota, 35 telemarketing workers lost their jobs.
During second quarter 2001, 97,200 job openings were reported in Minnesota, representing
a 3.8 percent job vacancy rate, down from 4.9 percent and 124,000 openings in fourth
quarter 2000. Even with a lower job vacancy rate and higher layoffs, labor markets still remain
tight. Unemployment rates across the district are below historic averages. About 9 percent
of nursing jobs in South Dakota are currently open due to a shortage. A direct marketer of
credit and insurance services will expand its workforce by 200 workers in Minnesota. Overall wage increases are moderate, with larger increases reported in some recent
labor contract signings. Only 25 percent of respondents to a survey of manufacturers in
Minnesota, Wisconsin and the Dakotas report increased wages between May and June
compared with 47 percent a year ago. Manufacturing wages increased 2.7 percent for the
three-month period ending in June compared with a year ago. Many schoolteachers in
North Dakota will receive an average of a 6.1 percent increase in pay for the upcoming
year compared with last year. Price increases remain modest, with decreases noted in gasoline and fertilizer and
significant increases in residential real estate prices. District gasoline prices were down
about 10 to 15 cents in July compared with last year. Fertilizer prices have dropped about
15 percent from three months ago. The median home price in Minneapolis-St. Paul
increased 12 percent in June compared with a year earlier.

 X-1 TENTH DISTRICT - KANSAS CITY Overview. The Tenth District economy weakened further in July. Manufacturing activity declined, construction and real estate activity slowed, and retail sales were flat. On a
positive note, vehicle sales picked up following several months of decline, and the energy sector continued to perform well. In the farm economy, wheat yields in many areas were better than
previously expected. District labor markets remained similar to the previous survey, with
employers having a much easier time hiring most kinds of workers than earlier in the year.
Wage pressures were minimal, and most prices remained steady. Retail Sales. Retail sales remained flat in July and were down slightly from a year ago.
Several contacts reported that while consumers continued to spend, they were becoming much
more value-conscious and responding in many cases to large price discounts. Women's casual
clothing sold well, while dress clothes and home furnishings experienced a drop in sales volume.
Retailers generally trimmed inventories in July and said they were satisfied with current stock
levels. Managers expect to increase inventories of school supplies and children's clothing by
typical amounts in August in anticipation of back-to-school buying. Motor vehicle sales
increased across most of the district in July, following reports of weaker activity in the previous
survey. But the stronger activity only pushed auto sales up to around year-ago levels. In many
places, the increase in activity came largely from sales of more fuel-efficient or diesel models of
cars and trucks, and dealers in those areas planned to increase inventories of those models
accordingly. Sales of SUVs and small trucks held steady, keeping dealers satisfied with
inventories of those vehicles. Manufacturing. Overall factory activity in the district declined again in July, as the
number of firms operating at low levels of capacity utilization continued to rise. The dropoff in

activity, however, appeared to be less sharp than in previous surveys. Producers of high-tech
equipment were the hardest hit, with sizable layoffs occurring at several firms. In contrast, there
were reports that food processing plants enjoyed slight growth in sales for the month. Lead
times were down slightly across most industries, with virtually no reports of material availability
problems. Cutbacks in production in recent months have helped to reduce inventories, and most
plant managers reported they were satisfied with current stocks. Real Estate and Construction. Real estate and construction activity declined in the
district in July. Housing starts dropped in most areas but remained largely unchanged from a
year ago. Builders expect a further decline in activity in coming months. Sales of new and
existing homes were stable in the district as a whole, but inventories of unsold homes were up
considerably from a year ago in many cities. Mortgage demand was flat in July but still well
above year-ago levels in most places, due largely to increased refinancing activity this year.
Mortgage lenders generally expect a weakening in demand this fall, as refinancing begins to
taper off. Commercial construction activity weakened in July and was below year-ago levels in
most parts of the district. Office absorption was also down considerably. Vacancy rates
increased in most cities, reaching record levels in some submarkets hit hard by dot-com failures
and high-tech layoffs. There were also reports of overbuilding of retail space and multi-family
units in several markets. Banking. Bankers report that loans edged up and deposits held steady since the last
survey, boosting loan-deposit ratios somewhat. Demand increased modestly for all loan
categories except consumer loans and construction loans, both of which declined slightly. On the
deposit side, increases in NOW accounts and MMDAs were offset by a decline in large CDs and
small time deposits. Some respondents attributed these offsetting deposits shifts to the

 X-3
narrowing spread between CD rates and rates on liquid deposit accounts. Others suggested that
nervousness about the stock market could be boosting investors' demand for liquid assets.
Almost all respondent banks reduced their prime lending rates, and most also decreased their consumer lending rates. None of the respondents expected to adjust these lending rates further in
the near term. Lending standards were unchanged. Energy. Energy activity in the district continued to expand in July. Despite recent drops
in oil and natural gas prices, the regional count of active drilling rigs was near a 15-year high.
Several energy industry contacts expect oil and gas activity to back off their peaks in coming
months. Others report that interest in gas exploration remains high and drilling activity would be
even higher were it not for the shortage of rig workers. Agriculture. District winter wheat producers harvested fewer acres and a smaller crop
this year, but yields in many areas were better than previously expected. The district corn and
soybean crops were generally in good condition, and yield prospects were favorable. Pasture
conditions in some areas deteriorated in recent weeks due to dry weather, reducing forage
supplies and discouraging ranchers from expanding their herds. Although livestock prices are
relatively strong, district bankers expect low crop prices and high fuel and fertilizer costs to hold
down farm incomes this year. As a result, bankers are keeping a close watch on their farm loans.
Small business activity remained sluggish in most rural parts of the district. Wages and Prices. District labor markets remained similar to the previous survey, with
employers having a much easier time hiring most kinds of workers than earlier in the year.
Many laid-off high-tech workers were having a difficult time finding jobs. An exception,
according to one source, was webmasters. Worker shortages persisted for nurses, school
teachers, oil field workers, and most construction trades. Wage pressures continued to be

 X-4
virtually nonexistent outside of these fields. There were reports that some businesses were
looking for ways to scale back benefits, such as free parking and health club memberships, that
are no longer necessary to attract and retain workers. Retail prices were steady to slightly down
in July, as many stores were trying to reduce inventories. These prices are expected to remain
largely unchanged in coming months. Prices for some manufacturing materials edged lower due
mainly to declines in energy prices. Purchasing managers generally expect flat prices in coming
months. Some builders reported increases in lumber costs, which are expected to continue
through the fall.

 XI-1 ELEVENTH DISTRICT-DALLAS Eleventh District economic activity weakened further since the last beige book. Many
manufacturers reported sales declines. Construction and real estate activity also declined, and the demand
for business services was softer. Banking activity slowed, and energy activity was weaker. Retail sales
were flat or up slightly. Most contacts do not expect much improvement in economic conditions through
the end of the year. Hot, dry weather has hurt crop and livestock conditions. Prices and Labor Markets. There were many reports of price declines. Energy prices have
fallen and are likely to fall further. Both oil and natural gas prices were lower over the past two months.
Natural gas inventories have built at unprecedented rates and are on pace to fill before the end of the
summer. If so, prices could fall a lot further, according to contacts. Wholesale gasoline prices have fallen
40 percent since late May. National retail gasoline prices are also lower. Fuel and energy costs remain a
concern for companies, but to a lesser extent than earlier in the year. Prices have dropped for
petrochemicals, including some basic chemicals, such as ethylene and propylene. Prices have also fallen
for plastic resins, such as polyethylene, polystyrene, polypropylene and polyvinyl chloride. Airlines are
offering major discounts on summer airfares. Business service firms say fees are unchanged or lower
than earlier in the year. Layoffs in several industries have loosened the labor markets. Temporary service firms continue
to see a greater number of skilled workers seeking employment. Wage pressures have subsided, but high
health insurance costs remain a concern for many firms. Several contacts also expressed concern that stiff
competition was containing price increases from their suppliers that could break loose if the competition
subsides. Manufacturing. Manufacturing activity weakened in June and July. Lumber sales continued to
decelerate, with a particular drop in demand from retail stores that sell primarily to consumers. Contacts
say lumber prices are "rock bottom" low. One contact had closed a plant while another has recently laid
off employees. Lumber inventories are in good shape. The paper industry reports a drop in demand and
sales have fallen by 10 percent to 30 percent compared to a year ago. Inventories, however, remain in
good shape. Demand for food products was unchanged. Apparel producers say demand has been soft. Fabricated metals producers said sales were strong to the energy industry but had dropped off for
non-energy related uses in recent weeks. Demand for primary metals picked up in June, but contacts
reported weaker sales in July, with one contact saying "[sales] just evaporated in July." Demand for
cement and concrete slowed since the last beige book, which contacts attribute to hot weather rather than
an overall cooling of the market. Demand for brick and glass has been strong in recent weeks. Sales of

 XI-2
glass to the construction industry have been strong but glass sales have weakened to the auto industry. A
contact reports that the glass industry has "too many suppliers right now." Respondents in the high-tech manufacturing sector reported that orders are less negative and
appear to be flattening out. Excess capacity remains high and prices continue to decline. Most
respondents said they had paired down inventories and current inventory levels are generally healthy.
One respondent in the semiconductor industry noted that computers and telecommunications equipment
account for about 60 percent of U.S. semiconductor production. He commented that while auto and
industrial demand has improved, U.S. semiconductor production will not get much of a boost until there
is improvement in computers and telecommunications. Respondents expect orders to remain relatively
flat for the next several months and are hopeful they will begin to grow near year-end. The telecommunications industry continues to contract, with weak sales and large losses.
Contacts say there is a lot of pressure to do projects that will make money, but there is no money to
spend on the projects, making it "virtually impossible to make any real head way." Both service and
equipment companies have taken aggressive measures to get inventories in line, often taking a loss and
selling at huge discounts. Previously announced layoffs continue to be carried out while new layoffs are
being announced. Refining margins were strong until the end of June, and then the bottom fell out of the market.
Inventories of refined products have reached levels well above their five-year average. Modest demand
combined with high levels of domestic production and imports all combined to push inventories up.
Several companies announced they are curtailing output to try to stem the glut. The petrochemical industry continues to struggle with weak demand and rising capacity. One
contact said the second quarter was the worst quarter since 1981, with several small producers filing for
bankruptcy. Domestic demand remains weak, while foreign demand has fallen-especially from Asia.
U.S. exports for the first half of 2001 were down 70 percent over the first half of 2000. Operating rates
are 10 percent to 15 percent under normal conditions for most segments of the industry, and operating
rates are in the low 60s for heavy natural gas users, such as ammonia or methanol. The outlook for the
industry is grim, with new capacity coming on line as several large new plants are being completed for
base petrochemicals. Services. Demand for business services remains soft, particularly for temporary service firms.
Temp firms reported fewer orders from all types of firms, with the largest drop from manufacturing.
Law firms, however, say that conditions have improved despite the weak economy. While real estate and
corporate activity has been slow, activity to support the energy industry and electric utility deregulation
has helped keep firms busy, along with increased bankruptcies and litigation. Accounting firms report
activity is slower but still busy, aided by the energy sector. Demand for transportation services has also

 XI-3
softened, particularly for airlines, where year-over-year revenues have "fallen off a cliff." Trucking
firms say demand has been soft, partly due to the slowdown in high-tech oriented commercial business.
Most service contacts were less optimistic about the outlook for activity for the rest of the year, expecting
little or no growth in sales, with the exception of bankruptcy lawyers. Retail Sales. Retail sales were flat or up slightly according to contacts. National retailers
reported that Texas sales were not as strong as the rest of the nation. Several retailers noted that
consumers are hunting for bargains, and there are not a lot of purchases at full price. One retailer said
spending was up as a result of tax rebate checks, which consumers were using to purchase mostly
discretionary items, such as electronics. Auto sales continued to pick up from a slow first quarter, and
dealers reported stronger sales in June than a year ago. Contacts attributed the sales strength to large
incentives and advertising. Auto inventories are in good shape. Financial Services. Deposit growth continues to slow, and lenders say this has dampened their
ability to lend somewhat. Delinquencies and non-performing loans are up, and loan loss reserve accounts
have been built up at most banks recently. Although all institutions are seeing slowdowns in all
categories, institutions that do business with energy-related companies are the strongest. The Houston
area is faring the best, while contacts in the Austin area reports the most negative comments. Medium
and small-sized institutions are doing better than larger institutions. Contacts are less confident about the
outlook than during the last survey. Construction and Real Estate. Construction and real estate activity declined in high-tech
regions of the state. Residential and non-residential markets have continued to soften, dramatically in
some areas. Sales of homes priced above $200,000 have been particularly slow, and some contacts say
the market for these homes is overbuilt. Many $1 million homes are sitting on the market. Some contacts
reported as much as a 20 percent to 30 percent sales decline from the beginning of the year. Activity
remained steady to "brisk" for homes priced below $150,000. Homebuilders are offering incentive
bonuses to realtors who sell homes. The office markets softened considerably, with a lot of subletting pushing up vacancies. The
North Dallas and Austin markets, which have heavy concentrations of high-technology firms, are
reported to be the weakest areas, and several contacts expressed concerns about overbuilding in these
markets. Office building owners are offering concessions-as much as 3 months free rent-to avoid
reducing rental rates. Dallas and Houston apartment markets appear to be in good shape. Apartment rent concessions
are almost gone in Dallas, according to contacts. In Austin, however, rents are expected to decline this
year. Contacts consider the Austin market to be very overbuilt. One contact said, "it will take a year to
reach the bottom and several to dig out."

 XI-4 Energy. Energy activity was weaker. Contacts say firms are reassessing investments, particularly
in light of falling natural gas prices. Many producers spent ahead of budget and cash flow in the first half
of the year and are now pausing to get back on budget. As a result, demand for rigs has weakened.
Utilization rates for rigs are down to 85-90 percent, and rates for rigs are down 10-15 percent. The
growing consensus is that domestic drilling activity has probably peaked for now. Agriculture. With mostly dry weather and temperatures over 100 degrees, crops are rapidly
losing potential yield and quality. The Texas cotton crop may be close to last year's drought-reduced
level. Drought has cut the crop for three of the last four years. The resulting economic stress leaves few
viable crop production alternatives for producers and lenders. Herd reduction increased in drier areas,
and supplemental feeding of livestock spread as available pasture grasses continued to decline.

 XII- 1 TWELFTH DISTRICT - SAN FRANCISCO Summary Twelfth District contacts reported continued slowing in economic growth and reduced
pressures on non-energy related prices and wages in most sectors in the June to late-July period.
The cost of energy at the retail level increased on balance, as higher electricity rates were only
partially offset by lower rates on natural gas. Respondents indicated that conservation was the
most common action taken to offset higher electricity prices; though there were isolated reports
of curtailments in production. District retailers experienced weak sales and many offered price
discounts. Manufacturers reported further deterioration in sales and continued contraction in
employment. With few exceptions, respondents indicated that investment in high-tech
equipment and software remained depressed. Respondents also noted that conditions softened in
commercial real estate markets, while single-family housing markets remained more stable.
District agricultural producers continued to struggle against low prices, weak exports, higher
energy costs, and the weather. District financial institutions reported further tightening of
lending standards and weaker demand for credit.
Wages and Prices Twelfth District contacts reported evidence of reduced pressures on prices in several
sectors, with a notable exception being retail electricity rates, and on wages in the June through
late-July period. Further increases in retail electricity rates put additional pressure on businesses
and consumers, though forced outages were limited. In addition to lower natural gas and
gasoline prices, respondents noted lower prices for a range of non-energy producer inputs,
including lumber and other construction materials. Lower airline fares, advertising fees, and
rental rates also were reported. Retailers and manufacturers offered discounts to promote sales.

 XII - 2
In contrast, prices for prescription drugs have increased substantially. In labor markets, with a
few exceptions, contacts indicated that slower economic growth was responsible for an easing of
pressures on wages. Twelfth District businesses continued to adjust to the high cost of electricity during the
June to late-July period. Respondents frequently cited aggressive conservation efforts to reduce
usage and costs. Some respondents also have added backup power systems and a few have
changed production schedules. Some power suppliers have been buying power back from
farmers and large industrial users, which in turn have reduced their operations. Some hotels and
construction firms reported passing along higher energy costs to consumers, while other
contacts, especially those in agriculture, reported that they were absorbing the higher costs.
Retail Trade and Services Twelfth District retailers recorded generally weak sales in the period from June through
late-July. Retailers noted that discounts were common and larger than normal for the early
summer season. Contacts reported that sales were running behind forecasts and comparable
store sales were lower than last year. However, contacts from the Intermountain region reported
that new car and light truck sales rose in June and dealers were working down inventories. Service sector jobs in the District remain at close to December 2000 levels. Contacts
reported cutbacks in jobs in the high-tech services and advertising sectors. Respondents from
Hawaii noted that the travel and tourism services sectors have slowed, and the most recent
published data show May hotel occupancy rates were below year-earlier rates.
Manufacturing Twelfth District manufacturing conditions remained weak and employment continued to
contract. Contacts reported weak sales of non-durable goods-such as apparel, sporting goods,

 XII - 3 and paints and coatings-as well as durable goods-such as computers and communications gear. Third quarter semiconductor sales are expected to fall below second quarter sales; however, new orders have picked up somewhat, and progress was made in reducing inventories during the first half of this year. Excess capacity was reported for semiconductor manufacturers and telecommunications, including broadband networks. New orders for commercial aircraft remain weak, reflecting sluggish passenger traffic growth in 2001 and weak earnings among airlines. With few exceptions, District contacts reported that the level of investment spending on computers, information-processing technology, and software remained below spending on such items a year earlier. Respondents attributed the reduction to high levels of high-tech investment in 2000 and a general cutback in investment in response to uncertainty about the outlook for the
economy and efforts to reduce costs. While contacts indicated that the pace of investment
spending had not deteriorated in the June through late-July period compared to the previous
survey period, neither did they report signs of an upturn.
Agriculture and Resource-related Industries Twelfth District agriculture has continued to struggle. Favorable domestic farm
production levels were offset by depressed world market prices and a strong dollar that limited
export sales. High electricity costs and water shortages in several states put further pressure on
the farm sector. District ranchers continue to benefit from steady cattle prices, but may face
higher costs and lower yields as a result of drought-like conditions. Respondents indicate that
lumber mills in the Pacific Northwest have cut back production, partly in response to import
competition and lower lumber prices.

 XII - 4 Real Estate and Construction Respondents noted that conditions softened in a number of commercial office markets. Office vacancies jumped up in second quarter in several metropolitan areas in the District, and reportedly continued to rise in July. Contacts noted a sharp decline in the demand for office space in the California markets of San Francisco and the Silicon Valley during the period. The rise in office vacancies in those markets was attributed to the Bay Area's economic slowdown, especially in the high-tech sectors, that has led to a sharp increase in availability of sublease space. Respondents also indicated that expectations of potential tenants that lease rates will fall further might be damping leasing activity. In Oregon, new construction and leasing activity were slower than expected. In addition, increased sublease space and new speculative office building have pushed up office vacancy rates further in Utah. In the residential sector, respondents indicated that single-family housing markets remain stable in most of the District. Single-family markets reportedly were boosted in part by
relatively low mortgage rates. There are signs, however, of a slowdown in home sales in the
high-end market in the San Francisco Bay Area. Declines in rental rates in some markets also
could affect multi-family construction activity.
Financial Institutions Twelfth District financial institutions reported that credit conditions continued to tighten
during the June to late-July period. California lenders noted they were experiencing slower
growth in loans and deposits. Slower loan growth was attributed to tighter lending standards,
including for new customers and small businesses, and weaker demand for credit. Overall,
respondents note that bank balance sheets remained healthy and earnings were good.

