National Summary The Beige Book ■ June 2017 Overall Economic Activity Economic activity expanded across all twelve Federal Reserve Districts in June, with the pace of growth ranging from slight to moderate. In addition, the majority of Districts expected modest to moderate gains in the months ahead. Con- sumer spending appears to be rising across a majority of Districts, led by increases in nonauto retail sales and tourism. However, many Districts noted some softening in consumer spending, particularly in auto sales which declined in half of the Districts. Manufacturing and nonfinancial services activity continued to grow, with most Districts reporting modest to moderate gains since the last report. Loan demand was steady to increasing in most Districts. Residential and non- residential construction activity was flat to expanding in most Districts. Most Districts cited low home inventory levels in certain market segments which were constraining home sales in many areas. Agricultural conditions were mixed across the nation as moisture conditions varied considerably; several Districts continued to report weakness in dairy and some crop sectors due to low prices. Energy activity generally improved since the last survey, particularly for oil and natural gas. Coal production remained sluggish although higher than year-ago levels. Employment and Wages Employment across most of the nation maintained a modest to moderate pace of expansion, although the Atlanta and St. Louis Districts noted flat employment levels. Labor markets tightened further for both low- and high-skilled positions, particularly in the construction and IT sectors. Contacts across a broad range of industries reported a shortage of quali- fied workers which had limited hiring. Wages continued to grow at a modest to moderate pace in most Districts, and many firms attributed these wage gains to tighter labor market conditions. Wage pressures generally trended with employment conditions, and rising wage pressures were noted among both low- and high-skilled positions. A few Dis- tricts also reported rising costs of benefits and variable pay. Prices Prices continued to rise modestly in the majority of Districts, and a few Districts noted that price pressures had eased slightly. Several Districts reported higher construction materials costs and freight prices, while gasoline prices fell. Retail prices held steady or slightly increased, and the manufacturing sector noted steady to modestly rising input costs. Low agricultural prices were causing stress for some farmers, although some food retailers reported improved margins due to lower commodity prices. Home prices continued to increase in most Districts.
Highlights by Federal Reserve District
Boston New York
Economic activity in the First District expanded at a Economic growth has picked up to a modest pace in
modest pace in recent weeks. Hiring activity was mixed, recent weeks. Labor markets have tightened further, as
proceeding at a moderate pace on average. Wage in- hiring has picked up. Input cost pressures have become
creases remained moderate with not much variation. somewhat less widespread, while selling prices contin-
Prices were mostly stable with some noteworthy excep- ued to rise modestly. Housing markets have strength-
tions. Contacts were cautiously optimistic concerning ened, whereas commercial real estate markets have
prospects for further growth. softened slightly. 1

 National Summary
Philadelphia St. Louis
Overall, economic activity appeared to slow to a slight Economic activity has slightly improved since our previ-
pace of growth, as consumer spending declined sharply ous report. Employers reported minimal hiring due to
for apparel, and demand softened for autos, new home difficulties finding qualified candidates putting upward
construction, and nonresidential construction. Most other pressure on both wages and benefits. There were posi-
sectors continued to grow at a modest pace. On bal- tive developments on consumer spending as contacts
ance, employment and wages continued to grow mod- reported a rebound in sales after a string of weak re-
estly, and prices grew only slightly. ports.
Cleveland Minneapolis
Reports from business contacts were somewhat less Ninth District economic activity increased modestly
positive, and the overall pace of growth was modest. during the reporting period. Professional services, com-
Price and cost pressures eased slightly. Labor markets mercial construction, manufacturing, energy, and mining
continued to tighten. Manufacturing activity increased, saw growth, while employment was held back by tight
but at a slower pace, especially for consumer packaged labor availability. The already struggling agricultural
products. Demand for IT services was particularly strong. sector weakened as severe drought conditions spread through the Dakotas and Montana.
Richmond
Economic activity expanded modestly, but at a some- Kansas City
what faster pace. The manufacturing sector improved Economic activity in the Tenth District expanded moder-
further, which boosted the transportation sector as more ately in June, and most sectors expected additional
goods were moved through ports and around the coun- gains in the months ahead. Consumer spending, manu-
try. Retail sales increased and tourism and travel reports facturing, services, construction and energy activity
were mostly upbeat. Construction and real estate mar- increased since the previous survey. The pace of growth
kets continued to improve modestly. Labor markets in the energy sector was anticipated to ease slightly. The
remained tight, and price increases were modest. agriculture sector remained weak, with subdued farm revenue and low commodity prices.
Atlanta
Economic activity modestly expanded since the previous Dallas
report. Labor market tightness continued. On balance, Economic activity grew moderately in the Eleventh Dis-
wage growth remained steady. Input costs were sub- trict, and outlooks remained positive. Growth in retail
dued. Consumer spending softened. Home sales in- sales decelerated, but there were reports of sales im-
creased and prices appreciated modestly. Nonresidential proving in energy-related areas and in the border region.
construction increased; however, multifamily construc- Activity in the energy sector expanded further, partly
tion showed signs of slowing. Manufacturing activity driving increased manufacturing production. Demand for
grew, albeit at a slower pace. staffing services remained strong. Apartment demand improved following a sluggish first-quarter.
Chicago
Growth picked up to a moderate pace and prices rose San Francisco
modestly. Employment, business spending, and manu- Economic activity in the Twelfth District continued to
facturing grew at moderate rates, while consumer spend- expand at a moderate pace. Overall price inflation was
ing and construction and real estate activity increased flat, while upward wage pressures strengthened. Sales
modestly. Conditions were little changed in the financial of retail goods were modest, and growth in the consumer
and agricultural sectors. and business services sectors remained strong. Condi- tions in the manufacturing sector improved. Activity in the residential housing market was robust. Conditions in the financial services sector remained solid. 2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Boston The Beige Book ■ June 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Business activity in the First District expanded at a modest pace on average, but reports were mixed across firms and
industries. Revenues are up by moderate margins on average among manufacturing and retail contacts, with year-over-
year gains that varied from slight to robust. Software and information services firms reported year-over-year growth
figures that ranged from a modest decline in one case to double-digit gains. Commercial real estate activity was flat or
up slightly across the District, while residential real estate sales were held back by declining inventories despite robust
demand. Some firms planned to increase headcounts by moderate or even large margins, while others expect to hold
employment fixed. Planned wage increases remained moderate, and price increases were small to moderate, with
some exceptions. Contacts expect either flat activity moving forward or further growth consistent with their own recent
results.
Employment and Wages Prices
Hiring plans among First District contacts ranged from Reports on price movements were mixed. Most manu-
flat to robust, and planned wage increases were stable facturing contacts reported stable prices. However, a
at a slow-to-moderate pace. Some retail contacts found cardboard box manufacturer increased its prices by 10
it slightly harder to hire workers, but were not much percent in response to a 10 percent increase in the price
concerned by that fact. Employment was flat or increas- of linerboard, a key input, and a frozen fish manufacturer
ing at manufacturing firms. A furniture manufacturer expects pollock prices to fall in the coming year. Retail
reported difficulty in retaining production workers but not output prices saw very little movement, although some
salespeople. A manufacturer of cardboard boxes was retailers plan to post moderate price increases for premi-
hiring additional workers without raising wages, but um fall merchandise and small price increases for basic
noted that finding qualified workers was difficult because goods.
production jobs increasingly involve using computers.
Manufacturing firms reported year-over-year wage Retail and Tourism Retail contacts reported that recent sales numbers re-
growth in the vicinity of 3 percent. A data storage firm flect increases over one year ago ranging from roughly 2
plans to make double-digit percentage increases in its percent to almost 10 percent, results that helped balance
net headcount in 2017, while a healthcare IT firm ex- lackluster sales in early 2017. All retail contacts feel that
pects a more modest 2 percent personnel increase. One the outlook rests on positive consumer sentiment trans-
enterprise software firm is keeping its headcount flat, but lating into actual sales. One noted that the movement of
shifting its hiring focus to growth areas such as the inter- consumers away from in-store shopping and towards
net of things. Another software firm is hiring at a moder- online shopping is accelerating faster than anticipated.
ate pace and has had to increase starting salaries for For the first four months of 2017, the hotel occupancy
engineers and sales positions. Firms are struggling to rate for the Boston area was up 0.9 percent from the
hire engineers and fill technical positions in greater same period a year earlier, and the average room rate
Boston. On average, software and IT firms are budgeting was up 1 percent. However, not including activity at new
for moderate wage increases. hotel rooms, the hotel occupancy rate for Boston was effectively flat year-over-year, a marked contrast to the robust annual increases seen over the last six years. At A-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Boston
the same time, contacts perceive that, between mid-May dence, demand for industrial space exceeds the very
and late June, Boston experienced strong tourism activi- limited supply, but the impetus for new construction
ty. The recently concluded Sail Boston event boosted remains low in light of high construction costs relative to
area restaurants in particular. The midyear outlook is rents. In Connecticut, however, plans were announced
that hotels will end 2017 with a net increase in annual for construction of significant new warehouse space.
revenues, but may not achieve the 5 percent increase in Also, a modestly-sized user-built office building is slated
average room rates initially predicted for 2017. for downtown Portland, and in and around Portland three hotel projects are underway. Contacts expect stable (if
Manufacturing and Related Services slow) leasing demand going forward, as well as ongoing
Of the 7 firms contacted, all but one reported higher changes in the retail landscape favoring entertainment
sales. The exception was a drug company, which at- and services over goods-selling businesses.
tributed flat sales to increased competition. A cardboard
box manufacturer reported 10 percent year-over-year Residential Real Estate
growth resulting from increased e-commerce. A manu- Residential real estate markets in the First District head-
facturer of sensors reported strong sales growth largely ed into the summer with continued upward pressure on
due to demand from the auto industry. A manufacturer of prices and depleted inventories. Four of the six First
power supply devices reported a major revision to capital District states reported year-over-year changes to May
spending plans. After many years of reconfiguring exist- 2017, while Vermont and the Boston area reported year-
ing plants to meet demand, the firm will build a new, over-year changes to April 2017. For single family
highly automated plant in New England, in order to save homes, closed sales were down by moderate margins on
on labor costs and bring engineers in close proximity to average in four of the six states and in the Greater Bos-
production. The outlook among contacts remains posi- ton area, but increased by moderate-to-robust margins in
tive but cautious. The drug manufacturer remained un- Rhode Island and Connecticut. The lower sales numbers
certain about the prospects for the health care industry, were attributed to declines in inventories over the same
and the sensor manufacturer expressed concerns about period rather than weak demand—inventories declined
slower growth moving forward in the auto industry. year-over-year in all six states while median sale prices increased by modest-to-robust margins in all states
Software and Information Technology Services except Vermont, which reported a moderate decline in
Software and IT firms reported year-over-year revenue prices. Pending sales increased in every reporting state
growth ranging from -2 percent to 10 percent. A data but Rhode Island and the Greater Boston area. In Rhode
storage and security firm experienced strong revenue Island, single family home sales posted an all-time high
growth, spurred by the high cyber-threat environment. A since the association began keeping records in 1998.
healthcare software provider also had strong year-over- For condos, closed sales increased in every state but
year revenue growth. A manufacturing enterprise soft- Massachusetts and Maine. In a promising sign for inven-
ware provider had flat revenue, but anticipates increased tories, Massachusetts experienced an increase in new
demand moving forward. Data backup and healthcare IT listings for the first time in over a year.
contacts were optimistic about future growth. Contacts
expressed concerns and doubts about the impact of Most contacts seemed optimistic about market activity
proposed national policy changes on business, and and continued strong buyer demand, despite the low
uncertainty related to health care policy was seen as inventories. Many noted that low unemployment has
putting a damper on business for health care IT firms. helped spur consumer confidence, which contributes to demand for residential real estate. Despite the fact that
Commercial Real Estate interest rates have increased, contacts noted that rates
Conditions in the First District’s commercial real estate are still relatively low and that prospective homeowners
markets were mostly unchanged in recent weeks. Office are eager to buy now before they increase more. Some
leasing activity remained very light in Hartford and light- expressed concern that continued upward pressure on
to-moderate elsewhere in the District. In Boston, leasing prices will price out first-time home buyers.■
demand remains uneven across submarkets within the
city. Investment sales demand held steady across the
District, and Boston’s premier properties remain in favor For more information about District economic conditions visit:
among foreign investors. In both Portland and Provi- www.bostonfed.org/regional-economy A-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of New York The Beige Book ■ June 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Economic activity in the Second District has expanded at a modest pace since the last report, while labor markets have
tightened further. Input price pressures have eased slightly, while selling prices have continued to rise modestly. Manu-
facturers noted a pickup in business activity, while the various service industries indicated mixed results. Consumer
spending has picked up a bit since the last report, and consumer confidence has remained close to a cyclical high.
Housing markets have strengthened, while commercial real estate markets were mixed but slightly softer. New residen-
tial construction activity has been steady at a subdued level, while commercial construction has picked up modestly.
Banks reported that loan demand was steady to softer, while delinquency rates continued to decline.
Employment and Wages Prices
The labor market has continued to tighten since the last Businesses generally reported upward pressure on input
report. Contacts at employment agencies noted that prices but to a lesser degree than in the last report, while
hiring has picked up and that jobs have become harder selling prices continued to rise modestly. Those in the
to fill. A major New York City employment agency noted wholesale and transportation industries reported modest
a pickup in hiring, especially from financial firms. In increases in selling prices, on balance, while businesses
upstate New York, there has been a pickup in demand in other sectors indicated little change.
for both full-time and temporary workers—particularly for General merchandise retailers reported that prices have
administrative and customer-care workers. Contacts also been steady, while New York City hotels indicated that
noted an ongoing shortage of software developers and room rates have slipped modestly. In contrast, Broadway
skilled workers more generally. theaters noted rising ticket prices, with the average price
Manufacturers have continued to add jobs but at a up 10-15 percent from a year earlier.
somewhat slower pace than in the last report. Business-
es in the finance, wholesale trade, real estate and con- Consumer Spending Retailers reported that sales have weakened, on bal-
struction sectors report that they are hiring, on net, while ance, while they expect business to be generally steady
those in the restaurant & hotel industry indicated some for the second half of the year. Retailers in upstate New
cutbacks in staffing levels. Businesses in manufacturing York reported that both shopper traffic and sales have
and most service industries expected to add jobs, on net, been flat at weak levels. A major retail chain noted that
in the months ahead. sales were roughly on plan, though they weakened a bit
Overall, wages are reported to have risen moderately, from May to June. Retail business in New York City,
though contacts in the transportation, warehousing, which had been particularly soft, improved slightly. In-
wholesale trade, and leisure & hospitality industries ventories were generally at or below normal levels, while
report more widespread increases in wages. prices were steady to up modestly. B-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of New York
Auto dealers in upstate New York reported that sales of A real estate contact in upstate New York State reported
new vehicles picked up in May and early June and were continued escalation in home prices, with homes in more
up from a year ago. Vehicle inventory levels have crept sought-after areas often selling for above the list price.
up, but dealers are generally optimistic about the out- Selling prices of both single-family homes and apart-
look. One contact noted that used vehicle sales have ments have also picked up in and around New York City,
picked up, while another reports that they are steady. though prices of Manhattan condos and co-ops have
Retail and wholesale credit conditions were character- risen only marginally. New York City’s rental market has
ized as favorable, but credit remains tight on sub-prime remained mostly steady. Rents remain flat overall—
auto loans. rising on smaller, less expensive units but declining on larger and pricier apartments. Landlord concessions
Consumer confidence in the Middle Atlantic states (NY, have stopped rising but are more prevalent than usual.
NJ, PA) edged down in June but remained near its cycli-
cal high set in March. Commercial real estate markets have been mixed but slightly softer on balance. The market for office space
Manufacturing and Distribution has been steady to slightly weaker: availability rates
Manufacturers reported that business activity has picked edged up, while asking rents slipped in New York City
up substantially since the last report. Businesses in the but were little changed elsewhere. However, the industri-
wholesale trade and transportation industries, however, al market has strengthened further, with availability rates
continued to report subdued growth. Similarly, while declining and asking rents up roughly 10 percent over
manufacturers remain broadly optimistic about the out- the past year. In contrast, the market for retail space has
look for the second half of this year, those in transporta- continued to slacken, with vacancy rates rising to multi-
tion and wholesale trade remain only mildly upbeat. year highs and asking rents little changed.
Services Both single-family and multi-family new home construc-
Businesses in most service industries reported steady to tion has been steady at a fairly subdued level, though
moderately growing business activity. Contacts in profes- there is still a good deal of multi-family development
sional and business services noted a pickup in activity under construction. Commercial construction, on the
and expressed widespread optimism about the near- other hand, has picked up. New office construction has
term outlook. Contacts in education & health services expanded noticeably in northern New Jersey and New
noted a slowdown in growth, while information industry York City’s outer boroughs but has been fairly restrained
contacts reported little change in activity. in other parts of the District. Industrial construction has
The leisure & hospitality sector has been mixed. A num- picked up in northern New Jersey but has remained flat
ber of contacts have reported a pullback in activity, cou- and fairly subdued elsewhere.
pled with increased pessimism about the outlook. While Banking and Finance
tourism activity in New York City has remained fairly Small to medium sized banks reported weaker demand
buoyant, advanced travel bookings are reported to be for consumer loans, but no change in demand for resi-
down, especially from abroad. In general, visitors are dential mortgages, commercial mortgages, or commer-
reported to be spending less—partly reflecting a shift cial & industrial loans. Refinancing activity decreased for
toward more domestic and fewer international visitors. all types of loans. Bankers reported slightly easier credit
On a more positive note, Broadway theater attendance standards for residential mortgages, and unchanged
and revenues were reported to be fairly strong in May standards in other loan categories. Bankers indicated
and June. Tourism was described as strong in the Finger narrowing spreads of loan rates over cost of funds for all
Lakes region of upstate New York. types of loans. Respondents also noted an increase in
Real Estate and Construction the average deposit rate. Banks reported lower delin-
Housing markets across the District have strengthened quency rates across all loan categories—particularly on
somewhat. Sales volume has picked up throughout the consumer and residential mortgage loans. ■
New York City area—particularly for moderately-priced,
single-family homes in outlying areas. In contrast, sales For more information about District economic conditions visit:
activity has slowed a bit in parts of upstate New York, www.newyorkfed.org/data-and-statistics/regional-data-
restrained by a lack of homes on the market. center/index.html B-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia The Beige Book ■ June 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Aggregate business activity in the Third District grew slightly over the current Beige Book reporting period — a retreat
from modest growth that had occurred during the prior period. Manufacturing continued at a moderate pace of growth,
while nonfinancial services, new home sales, and tourism continued to grow modestly. However, auto sales and con-
struction activity exhibited essentially no growth, if not a slight decline, and nonauto retail sales declined modestly. On
balance, employment and wages continued to grow at a modest pace, while prices edged only slightly higher. Overall,
firms appear to have lowered their expectations somewhat to modest growth over the next six months.
Employment and Wages Prices
Employment has continued at a modest pace of growth. On balance, price levels rose slightly as price pressures
Manufacturing firms reported little change in employment appeared to have eased off a prior modest pace. Of
and in the average hours worked compared with the contacts responding, about two-thirds reported no
prior period. Employment indicators from nonmanufac- change at all in prices paid and prices received. General-
turing firms were mixed, as contacts noted more net ly, prices have held firmer for raw inputs to and interme-
additions to full-time staff, fewer net additions to part- diate goods from manufacturers, while nonmanufacturing
time staff, and a slight increase in hours. contacts reported significant drops in prices paid for their inputs and received for goods sold.
On balance, wage pressures continue to be muted; the
percentage of nonmanufacturing firms that noted rising Retailers and food service providers noted that ongoing
wage and benefit costs is as low as any time in the past low commodity prices have helped their margins, while
three years. Wage pressures continued to be greater in homebuilders are facing 20 percent higher lumber costs
those markets with low unemployment rates. caused by trade tariffs against Canada. Contacts noted that the added cost can be more easily absorbed while
Pennsylvania staffing firms struggled to find qualified and building high-end homes, but can make low-end homes
committed workers. Staffing contacts reported spending less viable to bring to market.
more time and money on recruiting labor and refilling
positions after the initial hire quit, sometimes after just a Manufacturing
few days. Workers appear to have less loyalty to the job, On balance, manufacturing firms continued to report
and more job-hopping is showing up on résumés. How- moderate growth in general activity; however, the pace
ever, one large retailer reported having no difficulty eased off once more. During the prior period, the pace of
getting quality job candidates in locations throughout the new orders lessened; this period, the pace of shipments
District after raising its base wage last year. slowed. Still, the pace of activity appears somewhat stronger than is typical of expansionary periods in the Third District. C-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia
The makers of paper products, chemicals, fabricated positive with a little over 50 percent of the firms anticipat-
metal products, and industrial machinery continued to ing increased activity.
note gains in activity; these were joined by gains report-
ed by the makers of electronic products. Firms in the Financial Services
primary metal sector appeared to be gloomier, noting Financial firms reported slight growth of overall loan
reductions of new orders and shipments. volumes (excluding credit cards) — a bit slower than the modest growth that had occurred during the prior Beige
Generally, manufacturing contacts continued to expect Book period. Commercial real estate loans and auto
growth over the next six months; however, the percent- loans exhibited strong growth in loan volume; in contrast,
age of firms expecting future increases edged down mortgages and home equity loan volumes were essen-
slightly for employment, capital expenditures, and gen- tially flat, while commercial and industrial loan volumes
eral activity. declined. Credit card volumes are highly seasonal but have grown over the year at a modest rate and grew
Consumer Spending during this Beige Book period at a robust pace similar to
Nonauto retail contacts noted modest declines in sales the change observed over the same period last year.
overall, as apparel sales “continued to be hammered.”
Operators of outlets and traditional malls have been Banking contacts tended to describe the economy as
buffeted by a surge in retail bankruptcies. Even conven- stable and their loan portfolios as healthy with low delin-
ience store contacts noted that sales growth was below quencies and few areas of concern.
expectations, as lower-income households have contin-
ued to reduce spending. Real Estate and Construction Homebuilders generally reported a slight decline in activ-
On balance, auto dealers reported a slight decline in ity, following moderate growth in the prior period, alt-
year-over-year sales during the current period, with hough one builder noted a pick-up in mid-June. Contacts
Pennsylvania sales edging up and New Jersey sales reported ongoing difficulty in securing skilled labor but
declining modestly relative to last year’s high levels. stated that as long as overall demand for new construc-
Falling used car prices have been a contributing factor to tion remains soft, so too will the wage pressures.
softer demand for new cars. Dealer profitability contin-
ued to be a struggle, and some dealers and analysts are Brokers in most major Third District housing markets
revising year-end sales totals downward. continued to report modest growth of existing home sales, but no increase of inventories. In the Greater
Tourism activity continued to grow at a modest pace, Philadelphia area, pending sales of houses (under con-
according to several contacts. Delaware shore contacts tract) dropped slightly. Overall, existing home prices
noted exceedingly heavy traffic on the roads and signifi- continued to edge up with some variance across markets
cant tourist spending, but that last-minute bookings had and price categories.
not lifted hotel occupancies as much as expected. Still,
bookings remained ahead of last season. Atlantic City Nonresidential real estate contacts reported essentially
casino revenues also remained up over the prior year. no change in construction activity, which had grown modestly last period, although individual markets do vary
Nonfinancial Services by sector and geography. One contact noted that the
Service-sector firms continued to report modest growth construction pipeline may have begun to diminish. Leas-
in general activity, with some notable improvement in ing activity continued to exhibit little change overall.
sales (or revenues) over the prior period. One large Rents were rising nearly everywhere for industrial/
service-sector firm noted that growth remained slow and warehouse space; contacts noted plenty of demand and
a bit below expectations, prompting the firm to institute that new buildings continue to lease up before comple-
discretionary delays in filling vacant positions. An area tion. However, rent concessions have emerged for multi-
advertiser noted lower demand from local auto dealers, family units in the city of Philadelphia. ■
but more demand from the health-care and financial
sectors.
Expectations about future growth have ebbed further For more information about District economic conditions visit: www.philadelphiafed.org/research-and-data/regional-
since the prior Beige Book period but have remained economy C-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland The Beige Book ■ June 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Growth in economic activity across the Fourth District slowed to a modest pace during the reporting period. Labor mar-
kets continued to expand, with wage pressures noted primarily for high-skilled workers. Upward pressures on prices
paid and received eased slightly. Contacts facing higher input prices experienced little pushback from customers when
raising their selling prices. Consumer spending at brick-and-mortar establishments remained stable, while new motor
vehicle sales rose. Production increased at manufacturing plants, although at a slower pace than in the previous report-
ing period. Nonfinancial services firms experienced moderate revenue growth overall, but demand was strong for IT and
management consulting. Housing market activity picked up as year-to-date unit sales remained above year-ago levels
and selling prices were higher. Activity in the commercial real estate market remains elevated. Lending pipelines were
satisfactory, but contacts noted softer loan demand in select categories.
Employment and Wages Prices
District payrolls continued to expand, although at a Upward pressures on prices paid eased during the peri-
slightly slower pace than in the previous reporting period. od. Some manufacturers remarked that changes in input
Increases were notable in the construction and nonfinan- costs were modest. Construction contacts mentioned
cial services industries. Brick-and-mortar retailers again higher prices for lumber and other materials such as
noted decreases in staffing levels. Banking contacts copper and steel, and several contacts saw rising con-
mentioned tight labor market conditions and wage pres- struction subcontractor prices. Freight haulers saw rising
sures for skilled workers, including personnel in compli- tire prices. Similar to observations made in the previous
ance and statistical modeling positions. Building contrac- period, contacts in the manufacturing and construction
tors experienced difficulty hiring workers in skilled trades, sectors noticed they were able to pass on increased
especially drywallers. Construction contacts also noted costs to customers. Freight haulers reported improved
increased hiring for management and office staff posi- pricing ability, and some contacts cited rising rates be-
tions. Freight haulers mentioned difficulty recruiting cause of tightening capacity. Retail contacts observed
enough qualified drivers despite increasing driver wages little change in shelf prices except for some declines in
recently. Manufacturing contacts experienced little food items. Similarly, retailers saw little change in vendor
change in hiring, which was mostly replacements or prices except for lower prices for some raw food ingredi-
normal turnover. Staffing firms noted an increase in the ents.
number of listings for both temporary and permanent
positions, especially for occupations requiring specific Consumer Spending
skills or advanced degrees, while workforce develop- Consumer spending at District brick-and-mortar retailers
ment officials observed rising job placements for workers remained largely unchanged from that of the previous
with less than four-year degrees. reporting period. Sales of fresh food items were doing well, whereas electronics were selling poorly. Sales of apparel items at large chain retailers were soft. Retail D-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland
inventories were generally in good shape. Year-to-date Financial Services
sales of new motor vehicles through May increased Bankers generally reported that loan demand for the first
more than 3 percent compared to those of the same half of 2017 is below expectations. Businesses and
period a year ago. Dealers saw higher-than-usual inven- consumers may be looking for more clarity on potential
tories because of lower demand for passenger cars. changes to the tax code and regulatory reform before proceeding with spending plans. While most lending
Industrial Production categories are slowing, CRE loans and residential pur-
Manufacturing output grew at a slight pace during the chase mortgages are performing relatively well. While
reporting period, somewhat slower than earlier. The most contacts cited stable consumer loan demand, some
small pickup in demand from energy-related companies contacts noted softer demand, especially for credit
was more than offset by a decline in the motor vehicle cards, and indicated that consumers are deleveraging.
and consumer packaged-product industries. Demand Some contacts stated that credit standards for consumer
from the construction sector remains strong. Year-to-date loans, including credit cards, have eased somewhat.
production through May at District auto assembly plants There has been some credit tightening for financing
fell about 9 percent when compared to that of the same multifamily and retail developments and for subprime
time period during 2016. The large majority of manufac- auto loans. Bankers noted generally improving loan
turing contacts were allocating capital spending budgets quality for both commercial and consumer loans.
toward maintenance, although some contacts were also
allocating monies toward new equipment and technolo-
gy. Nonfinancial Services Activity in the nonfinancial services sector grew at a
Reports through May indicate that the number of drilling moderate pace during the period. Strongest demand was
rigs operating in the District continued to increase com- for IT, management consulting, and logistics services. IT
pared with that of a year ago. A contact remarked that consulting contacts noticed opportunities among retailers
investment in regional oil and gas is up, and both pipe- that are incorporating ecommerce into their business
lines and mid-stream plants are being built. Contacts models.
credited increases in natural gas demand in part to addi-
tional demand in gas-fired power generation. Contacts The pickup in freight volume seen during the past few
indicated that coal production declined during the report- months has diminished; however, the volume remains
ing period because of reduced demand, but they antici- above year-ago levels. Freight haulers saw increased
pate higher output in the coming months. demand from oil and gas and strong demand from con- struction material producers. ■
Real Estate and Construction
Year-to-date unit sales through May of new and existing
single-family homes increased 2 percent compared to
those of a year earlier. The average sales price rose 5
percent. Homebuilders described the housing market as
improving at a steady pace, with higher unit sales com-
pared to a year ago. One builder attributed strong sales
to a strengthening labor market. Another builder ob-
served that although demand is quite adequate, it is
difficult to meet demand across price points because of
rising costs for land, lot development, and construction.
Nonresidential real estate activity remains strong at
elevated levels. Nonresidential contractors report strong
demand for education and healthcare related buildings
and for commercial buildings for ecommerce distribution.
In contrast, contacts noted low demand for retail space
in both enclosed malls and shopping centers. Contacts
reported little change in overall inquires and backlogs
from the previous reporting period. D-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond The Beige Book ■ June 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
The Fifth District economy expanded modestly, and at a somewhat faster pace since the last report. Labor demand
remained firm but hiring was constrained by worker shortages. Prices rose slightly, on balance. Manufacturers’ ship-
ments increased but new orders softened due to a typical seasonal slowdown. The volume of freight moving through
district ports was robust and continued to increase, while trucking firms reported renewed momentum in shipments.
Retail sales increased and reports on tourism and travel spending were mostly upbeat. Home sales were up, despite
labor shortages in homebuilding and low existing home inventories. On balance, commercial construction and real
estate leasing picked up moderately. Loan demand increased, and while overall credit quality was said to be good,
some lenders expressed concern over lenient terms for auto loans and leases. Non-financial services firms saw modest
increases in revenues.
Employment and Wages Manufacturing
Labor demand strengthened moderately in recent Manufacturing firms reported modest increases in ship-
weeks, and firms increased their focus on retaining and ments, while new order volumes slowed somewhat due
recruiting qualified employees. Employment agencies to a typical summer slowdown. Machinery manufacturers
reported a moderate seasonal increase in new job open- and producers of primary and fabricated metal noted
ings across all sectors, but only a slight increase in improved business conditions in recent weeks. Addition-
applicants. Wage increases remained modest for most ally, textile mills indicated higher production. A few firms
firms. Several transportation industry executives, howev- reported increased productivity resulting from recent new
er, noted recent moderate wage increases and stronger equipment purchases, and they expected further efficien-
wage pressures compared to the previous report. Em- cy gains once employees were trained on operating the
ployment agencies said that entry-level salary offers equipment. Most firms expect orders to increase in the
increased at a higher rate across all job categories, since next six months.
the previous report. Ports and Transportation
Prices Since our last report, freight volumes through district
In general, prices were little changed to up modestly ports were very strong and continued to increase mod-
since our previous report. According to our most recent estly, on balance. Moreover, the gains were reported to
manufacturing survey, input prices increased slightly, be evident in imports and exports, and were widespread
and a little faster than final goods prices. Meanwhile, our across shipping categories. Meanwhile, momentum
services survey showed slight price increases overall, appeared to be building in truck transportation as execu-
with the pace of growth in retail goods outpacing that in tives in the industry reported stronger than seasonal
non-retail services. However, transportation executives increases in shipments during the second quarter. In
noted that spot freight prices were rising, in some cases addition to being more robust, growth had also become
significantly. Most agriculture and energy prices varied less volatile, with sequential increases in shipments in
slightly, with the notable exception of a moderate in- the March through June timeframe, following a pro-
crease in metallurgical coal prices. longed period during which freight was “up one month, down the next.” While trucking firms expect some E-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
seasonal slowing in the third quarter, most executives new projects in urban areas with previous high levels of
indicated that conditions feel better than they have in a multifamily development. Lastly, residential and commer-
very long time. cial real estate prices continued to rise at a modest pace, overall.
Retail, Travel, and Tourism
Retail sales increased in recent weeks, with somewhat Banking and Finance
mixed results across segments. Hardware and home On balance, loan demand continued to grow at a moder-
improvement stores reported strong sales, including for ate pace. Residential mortgage demand remained solid
big-ticket and seasonal items. A home furnishings store while refinance and home equity lending softened slight-
attributed an increase in sales to more people buying ly. On the commercial side, loan demand continued to
and building homes. Auto sales were mixed, with a deal- grow moderately; however, multifamily lending slowed
er in central Virginia reporting a pickup in new car sales slightly and a rising number of retail establishments were
in June, while a dealer in western North Carolina saw a reportedly seeking to lease rather than purchase. Auto
decline over the month. Clothing and shoe sales were lending remained robust, but some bankers expressed
said to be flat to down in recent weeks, despite a good concerns over an industry-wide trend towards negative
Father’s Day weekend. equity financing and extended purchase and lease terms. Competition among banks intensified slightly,
Tourism in coastal North Carolina was stronger in recent according to a contact in North Carolina, as credit unions
weeks relative to the same time last year, prompting have begun competing for commercial deals in some
higher retail sales and restaurant spending. Rental rates markets. Credit standards were generally unchanged
remained flat, but included more offers of extra ameni- and credit quality remained strong. Short term interest
ties. In western North Carolina, growth in tourist activity rates rose slightly but long term rates remained stable.
had slowed relative to the fast-paced growth of prior
years, but room rates were holding steady as hotel sup- Non-Financial Services
ply continued to grow. An outdoor recreation facility in Services firms generally reported modest revenue
western Virginia experienced increased bookings from growth, according to our most recent survey. Specifical-
both leisure and business groups. In Washington, DC, ly, engineering, architectural, accounting, and housing
conference activity remained at normal seasonal levels, related services such as landscaping, home improve-
while average daily rates on hotels increased. ment, and pest control reported revenue growth in recent weeks. Demand for self-storage units rose moderately. A
Real Estate and Construction few contacts in D.C. and Maryland cited concerns over
Residential real estate sales increased modestly since slowing federal procurement spending.
the previous report. Generally, real estate agents report-
ed that buyer traffic was down due to a typical seasonal Agriculture and Natural Resources
slowdown. Inventories remained low, and Realtors were Reports on energy markets were somewhat positive.
working harder to attract sellers into the market. Average Coal production was little changed in recent weeks but
days on the market decreased modestly. Brokers report- rose moderately compared to the same time last year.
ed that demand for lower to mid-range homes remained Exports remained elevated, particularly for thermal coal.
strong, with multiple offers and rising selling prices. Meanwhile, agriculture conditions were unchanged as
Residential developers also noted that homes in the the planting season got underway. ■
$200,000 price range were in high demand. Homebuild-
ers continued to report that new home starts were con-
strained by labor shortages.
On balance, commercial real estate leasing and con-
struction rose moderately. Industrial leasing transactions
and speculative construction picked up, while retail leas-
ing and sales remained strong. Office leasing was still
constrained in most locations, with some agents report-
ing rising demand for Class A space. Rental rates in-
creased modestly in most industrial, retail, and office
markets. Retail and mixed-use construction remained
strong. Multifamily construction continued at a moderate
pace, although a few contacts noted fewer announced For more information about District economic conditions visit: www.richmondfed.org/research/regional_economy E-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta The Beige Book ■ June 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
On balance, reports from Sixth District business contacts indicated that economic activity continued to expand at a
modest pace from mid-May through June. The outlook among businesses remains positive as most expect an increase
in activity over the next year. District firms continued to report difficulties filling positions of all calibers. Wage growth,
aside from wages for jobs in high demand, remained steady. Businesses reported muted non-labor input costs. District
merchants noted sales activity softened since the previous reporting period. The pace of vehicle sales slowed from a
year ago. The tourism sector continued to report softness in activity in parts of the District. Reports from residential
brokers and builders indicated home sales increased from year earlier levels. Real estate contacts also noted that home
prices modestly appreciated. Commercial real estate contacts continued to cite improved demand for most property
types and construction increased from a year ago. Manufacturing activity grew, albeit at a slower pace than the previous
report. Bankers noted credit continued to be available for qualified borrowers.
Employment and Wages Prices
Contacts continued to describe a tightening labor market In general, growth in input costs was restrained. Some
in which they struggled to find and hold onto quality contacts reported ability to pass along commodity input
workers, a narrative that has broadened across job types increases as they occurred. According to the Atlanta
and skill levels, from construction, information technolo- Fed’s Business Inflation Expectations survey, year-over-
gy (IT), finance, and transportation to low to mid-skill and year unit costs were up 1.9 percent in June. Survey
professional positions. Several contacts maintained that respondents indicated they expect unit costs to rise 2.0
labor market tightness was a major barrier to growth. percent over the next twelve months.
Some contacts reported that planned changes to immi-
gration policy made it more difficult to hire and retain Consumer Spending and Tourism
high-skill immigrants, including engineers, technicians, District retail contacts reported that sales levels were
and IT workers. Firms continued to deploy various tactics softer than expected in May. Retailers noted that overall
in an effort to find and develop pipelines of talent and sales activity during Memorial Day weekend was at or
retain workers; for example, developing partnerships slightly below expectations and sales levels from interna-
with workforce development entities, schools, and mili- tional shoppers weakened since the last report. Automo-
tary bases, expanding internal and external training and tive dealers reported a slow-down in the momentum of
apprenticeship programs, strengthening recruiting ef- auto sales from a year ago.
forts, and seeking out retirees to return to work. Some On balance, tourism and hospitality contacts across the
firms also enhanced compensation and benefits packag- District reported slightly softer than expected activity
es, particularly variable pay, healthcare contributions, during the start of the summer season, which they attrib-
flexible work arrangement offerings, and added vacation ute poor weather conditions. However, with the excep-
time. Additionally, firms continued to explore or deploy tion of South Florida, hotel occupancy and revenue per
technology as viable future replacements for labor, espe- available room were up year over year. Year-to-date
cially in hard-to-fill jobs. Contacts report that wage pres- Mississippi casino gaming revenues decreased com-
sures remained mostly stable, however there were also pared with the same time period last year. The outlook
continued reports of rising starting salaries for lower-skill among most contacts for the remainder of the summer
entry-level positions and ongoing upward wage pressure season remains optimistic.
for some high-skill, low-supply positions. F-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
Construction and Real Estate ued strength in shipments of automobiles and machin-
Reports on activity in May from District residential real ery, and record container volumes. Rail contacts report-
estate contacts continued to signal modest but steady ed a slight uptick in intermodal traffic; however, year-
growth. Most builders said construction activity increased over- year rail traffic was relatively unchanged since the
from the year-ago level. Brokers and builders continued previous report.
to report that home sales were up relative to one year Banking and Finance
earlier. The majority of builder and broker contacts noted Credit remained readily available for most qualified bor-
that buyer traffic was up from the previous year’s level. rowers. Competition for loan customers increased
Many residential contacts indicated that inventory levels among financial institutions. Overall loan growth varied –
were down from the year-ago level. Both builders and some institutions reported flat to slow growth while oth-
brokers reported modest gains in home prices. Home ers indicated strong growth. Small business loans were
sales expectations remained positive in May, with most up year over year at some institutions. Credit card usage
brokers and builders anticipating that sales would hold increased yet delinquency levels remained stable. De-
steady or increase slightly over the next three months posit levels were up at many institutions.
compared to the year-earlier level. Most builders expect
construction activity to match or exceed the current pace Energy
over the next three months. Reports from energy contacts indicated that Tropical Storm Cindy caused limited disruptions to oil and gas
Many District commercial real estate contacts reported operations in the Gulf of Mexico. Contacts noted that
improvements in demand that have resulted in rent trends in continued gains in energy efficiency has slowed
growth and increased absorption, but they continued to growth among residential and commercial gas custom-
caution that the rate of improvement varied by metropoli- ers. Reports indicated that natural gas demand was
tan area, submarket, and property type. The majority of below normal and inventories remained above average
commercial contractors indicated that the pace of non- levels. Contacts reported that Gulf Coast refineries ran at
residential construction activity had increased from one record high levels and crude oil inventories remained
year ago, with many reporting increasing backlogs. above average levels.
While most reports indicated that the pace of multifamily
construction matched or exceeded the year-ago level, a Agriculture
growing share of contacts are reporting that multifamily Agriculture conditions across the District were mixed. By
construction is down. Looking forward, the majority of mid-June, rains had significantly improved drought con-
District commercial construction contacts expect nonresi- ditions in much of the District. However, recent heavy
dential construction activity to increase, while expecta- rainfall due to Tropical Storm Cindy exacerbated areas’
tions for the pace of multifamily construction was mixed. crop moisture conditions in much of the District that were already categorized as abnormally moist to excessively
Manufacturing wet, and there were early indications of some crop dam-
On balance, manufacturing contacts continued to report age. During the reporting period, the District’s cotton
growth in overall activity. New orders and production crop was mostly on par with the five-year averages and
levels continued to rise, but at a slower pace than the soybean planting in Louisiana, Mississippi, and Tennes-
previous reporting period. Purchasing agents indicated see was ahead of their five-year averages. The June
that supply delivery times continued to get longer and forecast for Florida oranges was up slightly from May but
finished inventory levels increased slightly. The outlook remained considerably lower than last season's produc-
for future production decreased somewhat, with just tion. On a year-over-year basis, prices paid to farmers in
under half of firms expecting higher production levels April were up for cotton, soybeans, and broilers but
over the next six months. remained down for corn, rice, beef, and eggs. ■
Transportation
Most District transportation contacts reported an expan-
sion of activity during the reporting period. Logistics
companies noted steady growth in ecommerce ship-
ments, and trucking contacts reported notable increases
in freight volume and tonnage. District ports cited contin- For more information about District economic conditions visit: www.frbatlanta.org/economy-matters/regional-economics F-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago The Beige Book ■ June 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Growth in economic activity in the Seventh District picked up to a moderate pace in late May and June and respondents’
outlooks for growth over the next 6 to 12 months also improved some. Prices rose modestly. Employment, business
spending, and manufacturing grew at moderate rates, while consumer spending and construction and real estate activity
increased modestly. Conditions were little changed in the financial and agricultural sectors.
Employment and Wages Consumer Spending
Employment growth continued at a moderate rate over Consumer spending increased modestly over the report-
the reporting period, and contacts expected it to continue ing period. Non-auto retail sales were up modestly, with
at that pace for the next 6 to 12 months. Contacts indi- growth in the building materials, gardening equipment,
cated that the labor market was tight and that it was food and beverage, and personal care segments. Tour-
generally harder to fill high-skilled positions than low- ism and entertainment contacts reported that the sea-
skilled positions. Hiring was focused on professional and sonal pickup in activity was proceeding as expected. The
technical, sales, and production workers, and there was pace of auto sales changed little on net, with reports of a
an increase in the number of contacts hiring sales work- pickup in May followed by a slowdown in June. Used-
ers. A staffing firm that primarily supplies manufacturers vehicle sales were steady. Contacts indicated that low
with production workers reported a slight decline in fuel prices continued to shift the vehicle mix toward light
billable hours. Wage growth was modest overall, with trucks and away from cars. Low fuel prices also helped
increases more likely for high-skilled occupations. A spur increased sales of recreational vehicles.
number of contacts with union workers reported wage
increases that were well above inflation. Many contacts
said that the cost of benefits increased. Business Spending Growth in business spending remained at a moderate pace in late May and June. Retail inventories generally
Prices were at comfortable levels, although stocks appeared
Overall, prices again rose modestly in late May and high for certain models of autos. Manufacturing invento-
June. Retail prices increased slightly, with the exception ries were at comfortable levels overall, though invento-
of gasoline and food prices, which declined a bit. Materi- ries at steel service centers remained low. Growth in
als costs were little changed overall and freight costs capital spending continued at a moderate pace, and
were up slightly. contacts expected growth to continue at that pace for the next 6 to 12 months. Outlays were primarily for replacing G-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago
industrial equipment, IT equipment, and renovating Banking and Finance
structures, though there was an increase in the number Financial conditions were little changed on balance over
of contacts reporting spending for expansion. Demand the reporting period. Financial market participants noted
for electricity was little changed and shipping volumes that volatility continues to be low. Business loan demand
increased slightly. ticked up overall, and there was little change in loan standards or quality. Contacts reported an increase in demand for capital equipment and real estate loans.
Construction and Real Estate Demand for consumer loans was little changed on bal-
Construction and real estate activity increased modestly ance. Home loan volume rose faster than the usual
over the reporting period. Residential construction in- spring seasonal pattern and pricing was little changed.
creased slightly across home types and locations. Home Home loan quality remained strong. Demand for auto
sales increased a bit and house prices increased mod- loans decreased slightly and there was no notable
estly on balance. Demand varied by price range, with change in quality.
strong demand and tight inventories for homes under
$500,000 and modest demand and abundant inventories
for houses over $500,000. Nonresidential building Agriculture
changed little. A highway construction contractor in The agricultural sector continued to operate under stress
Illinois reported that they would stop work on all state- in late May and June, with reports of some crop and
funded projects at the beginning of July because the dairy operations exiting or filing for bankruptcy. Crop
state does not have a budget and that they have already conditions and maturity lagged that of last year’s bumper
laid off some workers who were preparing for new pro- crop, but the overall harvest is still expected to be
jects. The pace of commercial real estate activity re- around trend. Contacts expected a smaller corn harvest
mained strong and even picked up a bit, led by gains in than last year, but there is a small chance that the soy-
the industrial sector. Activity was especially strong in bean harvest will be larger because the wet spring led
West Michigan, and a contact there reported that activity some farmers to switch acreage from corn to soybeans.
had increased moderately over the reporting period. Hog prices moved up, but cattle prices dropped. Milk
Commercial rents edged up, as vacancy rates and the prices were lower, which contributed to mounting losses
availability of sublease space decreased slightly. for many dairy operations. ■
Manufacturing
Manufacturing production continued to grow at a moder-
ate rate in late May and June. Growth in steel production
remained at a moderate pace, as increased demand
from the energy and machinery industries offset softer
demand from the auto industry. Heavy machinery manu-
facturers themselves reported increased demand, driven
by the energy and mining sectors, particularly from over-
seas customers. Heavy truck manufacturers also report-
ed a pickup in demand. Sales for specialty metals manu-
facturers increased overall, with greater demand coming
from the aerospace, energy, and defense sectors. That
said, some contacts noted that recent growth had been
uneven, which raised concerns about future sales pro-
spects. Production in the auto sector declined some, but
remained at a solid level. For more information about District economic conditions visit: www.chicagofed.org/publications/cfsbc G-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis The Beige Book ■ June 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Reports from contacts suggest economic conditions have slightly improved since our previous report. Employers report-
ed little hiring and moderate wage pressures due to difficulties finding qualified candidates. Retailers indicated that
consumer spending modestly improved since our previous report. Manufacturing contacts continued to report modest
growth. Real estate contacts indicated that, while demand remained strong, residential activity continued to decline amid
supply constraints. Banking contacts indicate generally strong growth in loan demand from both businesses and house-
holds. Reports from the District’s agriculture sector suggest modest improvement after flooding last period, but that
generally conditions remain weak amid low prices.
Employment and Wages Prices
Anecdotal evidence suggests employment is little Price pressures in the District remained moderate. Low
changed since the previous report. Many contacts re- commodity prices continue to put pressure on the agri-
ported a desire to hire, but they have been unable to find culture sector. Since the previous report, cash prices of
suitable employees. Manufacturing contacts in Louisville wheat and sorghum have increased moderately and
and Memphis reported difficulties finding experienced or prices of rice have increased slightly; there was no
qualified employees, with some citing candidates' inabil- change in the price of coal, and prices of soybeans,
ity to pass drug tests or to consistently report to work. corn, and cotton decreased modestly. A contact in Little
Hospitality contacts in Louisville noted that both entry- Rock reported farm equipment prices are down.
level and experienced workers have been challenging to
find, and skilled positions in technical fields such as Across the District, home prices continued to increase
information technology and engineering remain difficult moderately. Contacts reported increased price pressures
to fill. on new homes from rising construction costs due to the shortage in labor supply. Price changes of construction
Contacts reported moderate growth in wages since the materials were mixed. Contacts in the Little Rock area
previous report, as tightness in the labor market has reported solid wood prices decreased modestly due to
resulted in upward pressure on wages. In addition, sev- increased supply, whereas a contact in the Memphis
eral contacts reported enhancing benefits in an effort to furniture industry reported higher wood and foam prices
attract employees. However, some employers noted were putting upward pressure on the price of their fin-
factors holding back wage increases. A science and ished goods.
technology contact reported that rising costs of benefits
have limited increases in wages, and a hospitality con- Consumer Spending
tact in Louisville noted that wages remain unchanged Reports from general retailers, auto dealers, and hotel-
because any increases would result in higher prices iers indicate consumer spending has grown modestly
charged to customers. since our previous report. May sales tax collections in Arkansas, Kentucky, Missouri, and Tennessee were higher than one year ago. Multiple auto dealers reported H-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
an increase in sales, albeit at a slower pace relative to a Commercial real estate activity has remained flat since
year ago. Furthermore, dealers in north Mississippi the previous report. Demand for industrial properties
reported a shift in demand toward used vehicles. Hospi- continued to be robust, and a Louisville contact reported
tality contacts in Missouri indicated that business activity that there is essentially no warehouse space available in
has increased since our previous report, while hotel the area. Multifamily demand remained stable, but some
occupancy rates continue to decline in downtown Louis- contacts reported an increase in demand for senior living
ville. facilities. Contacts reported that rising interest rates have had very little impact on commercial real estate markets.
Manufacturing
Manufacturing activity has increased modestly since our Commercial construction activity continued to be strong.
previous report. Manufacturing activity was stronger than Several Memphis contractors indicated that they are
one month earlier in both Missouri and Arkansas, alt- optimistic about their future prospective projects. Indus-
hough the pace of growth slowed sharply in Missouri and trial construction activity remained robust, particularly in
slowed slightly in Arkansas. In addition, contacts in the Louisville. Contacts across the District expressed con-
furniture manufacturing industry reported a decrease in cerns over the number of new hotels under construction.
orders. Several companies reported new capital ex- Banking and Finance
penditure and facility expansion plans in the District, Lending activity in the Eighth District has expanded at a
including firms that manufacture fabricated metal prod- robust pace since the previous report and markedly
ucts, paper products, and plastic and rubber products. A outpaced the nation. Commercial real estate loan vol-
contact in the aluminum industry reported record high umes grew at a strong pace, rising by 14 percent on a
capital expenditures. year-over-year basis. District bankers reported that
Nonfinancial Services consumer loans—which comprise credit card, auto,
Reports of plans in the service sector have been posi- medical, and student loans—experienced robust growth
tive, on balance, since the previous report. Firms that and have risen by 28 percent relative to year-ago levels.
provide transportation, warehousing, utilities, and infor- Commercial and industrial lending exhibited moderate
mation technology services reported plans to expand growth over the period, though slightly softer than in
facilities and hire employees. In the St. Louis area, re- recent quarters. District bank deposits expanded at a
ports from the education sector were negative, as two moderate pace and have been growing at roughly three
major universities announced layoffs due to budget cuts times the national rate over the past three years.
and declining enrollment. News from the healthcare Agriculture and Natural Resources
industry is mixed. Some providers are cutting costs, Agricultural conditions improved modestly by the end of
leading to closures in healthcare-related businesses; June as row-crop farms recovered from flooding. Con-
however, other providers continue to expand operations tacts reported a few Arkansas fields had still not dried up
in urban areas. enough to replant and many fields would be replanted
Real Estate and Construction with soybeans because other crops’ planting windows
Residential real estate activity has declined modestly had passed. As of June, the percentages of District corn
since the previous report. Seasonally adjusted home and soybeans rated fair or better were below their 2016
sales for May decreased slightly from the previous values, but corn improved slightly from a month prior.
month in most of the District’s four major MSAs. Local The percentage of rice rated fair or better was above the
real estate contacts continued to report that significant year- and month-ago values, while the cotton percentage
shortages in inventory have hindered sales while de- was slightly better than a year prior and slightly worse
mand remains strong. Most contacts indicated that than a month prior.
changes in interest rates have had little to no impact on Natural resource extraction conditions declined slightly
the market. from April to May, with seasonally adjusted coal produc-
May permit activity in District MSAs declined slightly tion decreasing 3 percent. However, production was still
relative to the previous month. A Memphis contact indi- 7 percent higher than one year ago. ■
cated that little new construction is occurring, while a
Little Rock contact noted that homebuilding in the region For more information about District economic conditions, visit:
is approaching levels consistent with fundamentals. www.research.stlouisfed.org/regecon/ H-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis The Beige Book ■ June 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Since the last reporting period, the Ninth District economy experienced modest growth. Employment grew modestly,
held back by poor labor availability. Wages grew moderately to strongly, while price pressures remained modest. The
District economy showed growth in professional services, residential construction, manufacturing, energy, and mining.
Commercial and residential real estate, along with commercial construction, were mixed. Tourism activity was flat over-
all, while consumer spending fell, and agricultural conditions weakened.
Employment and Wages Wages grew moderately to strongly overall since the last
Employment grew modestly since the last report, held report. A central Minnesota contact said wage pressure
back by poor labor availability. While total employment is “a big deal for companies with entry level jobs,” and a
grew across District states, it grew by less than normal regional survey there found that half of respondents
for this time of year. Job demand continued to be strong. were increasing wages to deal with a tight labor market.
A Minnesota construction contact said, “Everyone is Average wages for 18 Minnesota construction unions
hiring in all markets.” A Montana staffing contact said saw annual increases of between 3.3 percent and 5
second quarter orders overall were “stagnant,” but June percent in recent three-year contracts negotiated in May.
orders have seen an uptick. A staffing firm in A Minnesota food processing company increased union
southeastern Minnesota said job openings over the worker wages by close to 3 percent annually over four
previous two months grew by 14 percent over the same years; a Montana natural resource company increased
period a year earlier, and a general labor shortage had wages by a total of 5 percent over a two-year period. In
clients “concerned that this was going to impact growth North Dakota, state budget difficulties have resulted in a
of their business.” Tourism businesses across the freeze in salaries for many state and higher education
District reported difficulty finding workers; three workers.
Minnesota resorts reported close to 200 unfilled Prices
openings. Initial unemployment insurance claims over Price pressures remained modest since the last report.
the most recent six-week period dropped by 13 percent Pressure on construction materials prices has eased,
in the District over the same period a year earlier, with according to industry contacts. Recent bids for a large
continuing claims dropping by 10 percent. An employer highway construction project in Minnesota came in 18
survey in District states found a small increase in the percent below expectations. Iron ore prices have fallen in
share of companies expecting to hire more staff in the recent months, while scrap metal prices, by contrast,
coming quarter compared with the current quarter; the have been on an upward trend since late last year. Retail
share of firms expecting to cut staff was low and roughly fuel prices in District states decreased slightly in June
unchanged. Job losses continued from large retailers, compared with a month earlier. Most prices received by
and hiring in eastern North Dakota continued to be soft, farmers decreased in May from a year earlier, with the
while employers in the western, oil-producing region of exception of hay, milk, cattle, chickens, and eggs.
the state were reportedly “hungry to hire,” according to a
regional source. I-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis
Consumer Spending and Tourism Commercial real estate was mixed since the last report.
Consumer spending was down slightly since the last A contact in Rapid City, S.D., said transaction activity
report. May sales tax collections in South Dakota were there has been strong. “Apartment complexes get sold
down 2 percent from a year earlier. Recent sales of within a week of listing.” Retail vacancy was described
passenger vehicles decreased, according to auto dealer as “pretty stable,” while office vacancy appeared to be
contacts, while sales of trucks increased slightly. In rising thanks to new space coming to the market. Retail
contrast, a contact at a North Dakota mall reported that vacancy rates have continued to rise slowly in
sales were up slightly. A regional big box retail chain and Minneapolis-St. Paul, thanks to a significant amount of
a supermarket chain were planning to add stores. space vacated by large retailers. However, another source noted that retail space under construction was
Tourism activity was flat overall since the last report. lower than a year earlier and grocery expansion
May visits to national parks in the District were down 2 continued to eat up available space. Despite strong
percent from a year earlier. Demand for hotel lodging in construction activity, multi-family vacancy rates remained
Minnesota was flat in May from a year earlier. In low in the region, and rents were rising. Residential real
contrast, gaming revenues in Deadwood, S.D., estate was mixed. Closed sales rose in northern and
increased 8 percent in May. western Wisconsin counties located in the District
Services compared with a year earlier; sales also grew in Sioux
Activity in the professional services industry increased Falls, S.D. Sales were mixed in Montana—strong in the
moderately since the last report. According to preliminary Flathead region, flat in Missoula, but lower in Helena. In
results from an annual survey of District services firms, Minneapolis-St. Paul, May sales fell by almost 2 percent,
respondents reported that sales, productivity, and while sales in the rest of the state were flat, attributed
employment all increased over the past year; firms largely to low inventories of homes for sale.
expected more growth over the coming year. An Manufacturing
accounting firm reported increased activity, even as the District manufacturing activity increased moderately
busy tax season subsided. Contacts in the trucking since the last report. An index of manufacturing
industry reported flat activity over recent months. conditions produced by Creighton University indicated
Construction and Real Estate increased activity in May compared with a month earlier
Commercial construction was mixed since the last in Minnesota and the Dakotas. Several contacts in the
report. According to industry figures, commercial building metal-fabricating industry reported very strong recent
and nonbuilding construction activity in May was lower activity; one contact had record sales in May and was
than a year earlier. A separate database of construction expecting a similar level in June. A dealer of capital
projects out for bid across several District states through equipment and services reported that orders were up. An
mid-June was flat compared with a year earlier. But a electronics producer announced a major new facility in
Minnesota industry association contact said most Minnesota.
members “seem to be having good years with full or Agriculture, Energy and Natural Resources
potentially full calendars of work.” Commercial permit District agricultural conditions weakened since the
values in May grew considerably over a year earlier in previous report. Severe drought conditions affected the
several larger cities in the Minneapolis-St. Paul region, Dakotas and parts of Montana, hampering crop progress
including the core cities; however, they were flat or lower and triggering disaster relief payments to ranchers in
in a large majority of other larger cities in the District. In some areas. By contrast, crop conditions in the eastern
Rochester, Minn., construction was described as “fairly parts of the District were mostly good or excellent as of
subdued,” but was expected to change. Residential late June. Activity in the energy and mining sectors
construction grew modestly. Single-family permits in May increased slightly since the last report. District oil and
rose in only a small majority of large District cities gas exploration activity increased in late June from a
compared with a year earlier. Multi-family construction month earlier, even as crude prices fell. Recent
continued its strong activity, with more than 900 units production at Minnesota iron ore mines has been
permitted in May across the Minneapolis-St. Paul metro, running well ahead of levels a year earlier. ■
the highest monthly figure in almost four years. I-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of  Kansas City  The Beige Book ■ June 2017 
Summary of Economic Activity
Economic activity in the Tenth District expanded moderately in June, and most sectors expected additional gains in the
months ahead. Consumer spending increased at a moderate pace, with retail, restaurant and tourism contacts reporting
stronger sales than the previous survey period. Manufacturing activity picked up moderately, and professional, high-
tech, and transportation contacts reported strong increases in sales. Capital expenditures were anticipated to rise in the
manufacturing, professional and high-tech industries, while wholesale trade and transportation firms expected a modest
decline. Residential and commercial construction activity rose in June, but home sales declined slightly as low invento-
ries constrained sales. The number of active drilling rigs continued to increase, but the pace of growth was expected to
slow in coming months. District farm revenue remained subdued as most agricultural commodity prices remained low.
Employment and wages increased modestly since the previous survey period, and contacts expected moderate wage
growth in the coming months. Input prices were up modestly in most sectors, and selling prices were mixed.
Employment and Wages in the transportation sector rose at a modest pace, while
District employment and employee hours continued to selling prices increased slightly. Prices in the construc-
increase modestly in June, and contacts expected addi- tion sector rose modestly, with slight increases anticipat-
tional gains in the months ahead. Contacts in the retail, ed in the coming months. Manufacturers reported slight
wholesale trade, professional and high-tech services, decreases in finished goods prices, while raw material
tourism, health services and real estate sectors reported costs continued to edge higher. Manufacturers anticipat-
a modest increase in employment since the previous ed modest growth in both finished goods and raw materi-
survey period, while employment held steady in auto al prices over the next few months.
sales and restaurants. All sectors anticipated higher Consumer Spending
employment levels in the coming months except for the Consumer spending increased moderately, and addition-
auto sector which expected a slight decrease. Average al moderate gains were expected in the months ahead.
employee hours rose since the previous survey in the Retail sales rose at a moderate pace and were well
services and manufacturing sectors and were above above year-ago levels. Several retailers noted stronger
year-ago levels. Several contacts noted a shortage of sales for lumber and building materials, while luxury and
commercial drivers, salespeople, and service workers. higher-priced products sold poorly. Retail contacts antici-
Wages rose modestly in most sectors in June, and mod- pated sales to grow moderately in the next few months,
erate wage growth was anticipated in the coming and inventory levels were expected to remain stable.
months. Auto sales stabilized in June after declining for several months and were slightly above year-ago levels. Dealer
Prices contacts anticipated a moderate increase in auto sales in
Input prices were up modestly in most sectors compared the months ahead. Restaurant sales picked up moder-
to the previous survey period, while selling prices were ately since the previous survey, and modest gains were
mixed. In the retail sector, selling prices edged up, and expected in the coming months. District tourism activity
input prices continued to rise, but at a slower pace than increased moderately and remained above year-ago
in the prior survey. Restaurant contacts reported slight levels. Tourism contacts anticipated moderate increases
declines in both input and selling prices, but expected in activity during the summer months.
both prices to pick up in the months ahead. Input prices J-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City   
Manufacturing and Other Business Activity all major loan categories, and a majority of respondents
Manufacturing activity continued to expand at a moder- reported stable deposit levels.
ate pace in June, and most other business contacts Energy
reported improved sales. Manufacturers reported moder- Energy activity rose at a modest pace, while expecta-
ate growth in production, particularly for aircraft, plastics, tions eased slightly but remained positive. The number
and chemical products. Shipments and new orders ex- of active oil and gas drilling rigs continued to increase
panded modestly, and activity was considerably higher across the District, but respondents expected the pace of
than a year ago. Manufacturers’ capital spending plans growth to slow in the coming months due to flat prices
were mostly positive, and firms’ expectations for future and the continued oversupply of oil. Contacts also re-
activity remained strong. ported a moderate decline in access to credit, particular-
Outside of manufacturing, professional, high-tech, and ly from banks, while private equity continued to be readi-
transportation firms reported strong sales increases, ly available. Expectations for future oil and gas prices
while wholesale trade contacts reported a more modest moderated somewhat as a result of the continued in-
growth in sales. Most firms expected a moderate im- crease in U.S. oil production and ample natural gas
provement in sales in the next six months. Professional supply. Furthermore, contacts said that although the oil
and high-tech firms expected capital spending to in- and gas prices needed to increase drilling substantially
crease moderately heading forward, while wholesale has continued to decline modestly, it remained above
trade and transportation firms anticipated a modest their current one-year ahead price expectations.
decline in capital expenditures. Agriculture
Real Estate and Construction District farm revenue remained subdued since the previ-
District real estate activity expanded slightly since the ous reporting period as most agricultural commodity
previous survey period, and respondents expected fur- prices remained low. Corn and wheat prices increased
ther gains moving forward. Residential home sales de- slightly, but were lower than a year ago due to elevated
clined slightly from the previous month, with sales of low- global supplies. Similar to last year, District contacts
and medium-priced homes outpacing sales of higher- reported that corn and wheat prices remained below
priced homes. Residential home inventories moved levels generally thought to be profitable and financial
modestly lower from year-ago levels. Contacts expected stress continued to increase at a gradual pace for many
low inventories to constrain sales in the next few months producers. Soybean prices declined slightly from the
and anticipated sales would be flat. Residential construc- previous reporting period and were also slightly less than
tion activity grew slightly, as housing starts and traffic of a year ago. Livestock operators were slightly more opti-
potential buyers rose, while construction supply sales mistic than earlier, as cattle prices increased modestly
were stable. Respondents expected overall residential from a year ago. Hog prices also increased modestly
construction activity to increase moderately in the from the previous reporting period as global demand for
months ahead. Commercial real estate activity continued meat products remained relatively strong. ■
to expand modestly as vacancy rates declined and ab-
sorption, completions, construction underway, sales,
prices and rents increased. A modest expansion in the
commercial real estate sector was anticipated in the
coming months.
Banking
A majority of banking respondents indicated stable de-
mand for commercial and industrial, commercial real
estate, residential real estate, and consumer installment
loans. Demand for agricultural loans was mostly mixed in
June. Most bankers indicated loan quality was un-
changed compared to a year ago, and expected loan
quality to remain essentially the same over the next six For more information about District economic conditions visit: 
months. Credit standards remained largely unchanged in www.KansasCityFed.org/Research/RegionalEconomy  J-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas The Beige Book ■ June 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
The Eleventh District economy continued to expand at a moderate pace over the past six weeks. Manufacturing output
rose, and activity in nonfinancial services increased. Growth in retail sales slowed, while auto sales dipped. Housing
demand grew, lending activity increased, and the energy sector saw continued improvement. Crop conditions were
mostly favorable. Employment and wages rose, as did prices. Outlooks remained positive, although some contacts
noted uncertainty regarding changes in trade and healthcare policy as well as tax reform.
Employment and Wages Manufacturing
Overall employment rose moderately, and wage pres- Expansion in the manufacturing sector slowed over the
sures were similar to the last report. Manufacturers past month. Among durables, output growth in primary
added to payrolls, with some noting that labor shortages metals and machinery manufacturing strengthened, but
were pushing up wages. Hiring in the services sector, production was flat for fabricated metals and high-tech
including retail, continued. The construction labor market manufacturing. Food manufacturers reported an in-
remained tight, particularly in Dallas-Fort Worth and crease in demand. There were reports of strength in
Austin. Two staffing firms cited wage pressures across energy-related manufacturing activity, but exports re-
most skill levels, while two reported that rising wage mained a source of weakness for manufacturers who sell
pressures were limited to higher-skilled positions. Con- internationally. Overall, outlooks stayed positive. A cou-
tacts noted labor market tightness throughout the oil and ple of contacts said they were uncertain about how long
gas supply chain and continued to cite upward wage the current strength in activity would last.
pressures particularly for experienced personnel and for Refinery utilization rates along the Gulf Coast increased.
certain skills sets. Refiner margins in 2017 will likely be lower than previ-
Prices ously expected, reflecting large product inventories and
Selling prices increased at a slightly slower pace than in lower expectations of U.S. consumption growth. Chemi-
the prior report. Some oilfield services firms noted a cal producers noted healthy global demand and good
weaker outlook for margins as costs were rising at a margins.
faster pace than selling prices. Accommodation and food Retail Sales
services contacts noted higher prices. Staffing firms saw Retail sales continued to rise, although at a slower pace
stable billing rates, while airlines noted higher fees and than the prior period. Some contacts noted that in-store
ticket prices. Cotton prices slipped in June on rising sales continued to be weak. There were a few reports of
expectations of strong cotton production this year. Retail sales improving along the Texas-Mexico border and in
gasoline and diesel prices fell over the reporting period energy-related regions. Auto sales fell during the report-
following the decline in oil prices. ing period. Auto lenders have tightened credit amid rising K-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
delinquencies. Outlooks among retailers generally im- and contacts expected continued, gradual improvement
proved compared with the prior report. in Houston’s multifamily market. Transaction volume appeared to have slowed for multifamily properties as
Nonfinancial Services there was not much inventory on the market for sale.
Demand for nonfinancial services expanded moderately
over the past six weeks. Demand for staffing services Office demand in Dallas-Fort Worth remained solid and
generally increased, with all contacts noting higher year- rent pressure persisted, although rental rates at the very
over-year activity. Placements of health care profession- high end have been relatively flat. One contact ex-
als generally remained high. Contacts saw a pickup in pressed some concern about the elevated level of office
orders for mining-related work in East Texas and cited construction in the metroplex.
broad-based demand for white-collar workers in Dallas- Financial Services
Fort Worth. A contact in Houston noted surprisingly Loan demand increased over the past six weeks, alt-
strong demand for entry- to mid-level placements from hough at a slightly slower pace than in the previous
oil and gas firms. reporting period. Growth in commercial real estate and
Professional and technical service firms saw revenue commercial and industrial loan volumes slowed. Resi-
gains during the reporting period, with several firms dential real estate loan balances expanded at a faster
noting a pickup in activity. Accommodation and food rate than in the previous reporting cycle, while consumer
services contacts also noted slight increases in reve- lending declined slightly. Deposit volumes expanded,
nues, although there were some reports of persistent and lenders cited higher net interest margins as well as
weakness in demand. Airlines said passenger demand higher rates on loans. Contacts remained largely opti-
held steady over the past six weeks. Domestic travel mistic regarding future business activity and loan de-
remained stable, while activity along transatlantic and mand; however, several continued to express concern
South American routes increased. about the regulatory environment.
Transportation and warehousing firms noted higher Energy
revenues and an increase in cargo volumes since the Demand for oilfield services continued to improve, and
last report. Rail cargo rose, led by strong gains in ship- oilfield services firms noted increased utilization of their
ments of fracking sand and grains, although shipments equipment. Drilling activity rose further, and exploration
of petroleum products and motor vehicles continued to and production firms reported an increase in oil and gas
decline. Parcel shipments and seaport cargo increased, production. Several contacts said that the pace of in-
while air and trucking freight volumes were flat. Outlooks crease in the rig count may not be sustainable and that
among nonfinancial services firms remained fairly opti- they expect it to taper off or even plateau past mid-2017.
mistic, although some contacts expressed concern about Outlooks remained positive, although contacts were less
economic and political uncertainty. optimistic compared with the previous report.
Construction and Real Estate Agriculture
Homes sales continued to trend upward during the re- Moisture levels remained favorable across the district,
porting period. Contacts in Austin, Dallas-Fort Worth and boosting crop conditions. The wheat harvest was wrap-
Houston noted that sales of low- to mid-priced homes ping up, and production was down sharply from last year
mostly remained strong, however, sales at the higher- because of lower yields and fewer acres planted. While
price points varied by submarket. Home prices were flat farmers were generally feeling positive about 2017 row
to up, and more builders were focusing on bringing mod- crop production, they remained concerned about low
erately-priced products to the market. crop prices and financial strain from not being able to
Apartment demand improved and occupancy edged cover production costs. Export demand for U.S. cotton
higher in the second quarter, following a generally slow will likely not be as strong this year due to average crop
first quarter. Leasing activity picked up in Houston where quality and higher global supply. The cattle industry
overall market conditions were beginning to stabilize, continued to benefit from very strong beef demand, both
and landlords were able to reduce rent concessions on domestically and internationally. ■
select floorplans. Rental rates rose, with Dallas-Fort
Worth seeing the fastest growth. Outlooks were positive For more information about District economic conditions visit: www.dallasfed.org/research/texas K-2

 Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco The Beige Book ■ June 2017
Summary of Economic Activity
Economic activity in the Twelfth District continued to expand at a moderate pace during the reporting period of mid-May
through June. Overall price inflation was flat, while upward wage pressures strengthened. Sales of retail goods were
modest, and growth in the consumer and business services sectors remained strong. Conditions in the manufacturing
sector improved, and activity in the agriculture sector picked up to a modest pace. Contacts reported robust activity in
residential real estate markets, and activity in the commercial sector picked up. Conditions in the financial services
sector remained solid.
Employment and Wages Retail Trade and Services
On balance, wage pressures ticked up, and conditions On balance, retail sales were modest over the reporting
in the labor market tightened further during the reporting period. Contacts reported that, while retail sales picked
period. Wage pressures for skilled software engineers up overall, the shift in consumer preferences toward
intensified further as competition for programmers with online purchases slowed sales at traditional brick-and-
experience in cybersecurity and cloud computing re- mortar retailers. Declines in gasoline prices reportedly
mained fierce. Demand for unskilled warehouse employ- boosted sales of light trucks. Inventories of automobiles
ees in the transportation and logistics services sector grew as demand softened further, and contacts ex-
increased. Contacts reported that they increasingly filled pected sales to remain weak for some time.
job openings with older workers who were reportedly
seeking health-care benefits or supplemental income. Activity in the consumer and business services sector
Shortages of labor and increasing wage costs fueled generally grew at a strong pace. Business demand for
investments in automation in the agriculture industry. security, cloud, and analytic services continued to boost
Sluggish sales growth and rising compensation costs sales in the technology industry. E-commerce sales
slowed the pace of hiring in the restaurant industry. supported strong volume growth in the transportation industry. Tourism demand remained strong, although
Prices contacts noted that continued uncertainty surrounding
Overall, price inflation was flat over the reporting period. immigration policy slowed international bookings at
Prices of construction materials picked up. Hotel rates hotels in Southern California. Restaurant sales re-
firmed as tourism demand remained strong. Overall mained sluggish, and contacts expect the sluggishness
prices for consumer electronics edged down slightly. to continue through the end of the year.
However, increased demand for computational memory
buttressed prices of some manufactured components. Manufacturing
Prices for cloud computing services declined as data Conditions in the manufacturing sector improved some-
centers achieved greater economies of scale. Increased what, but uncertainty around fiscal, trade, and immigra-
capacity in renewable energy generation held down tion policies tempered views on future growth. Increas- es in demand for memory on consumer devices boost-
energy price inflation. Overall, prices of agricultural
commodities slipped as the pace of supply growth out-
paced that of demand. L-1

 Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco
ed production of semiconductors, and contacts expect Real Estate and Construction
double-digit growth through the end of the year. Demand Real estate market activity picked up to a robust pace.
for primary and fabricated metals increased, buoyed by a Residential construction activity continued to be strong in
pickup of business investment and solid residential and much of the District, slowed only by a lack of available
commercial construction. Production of manufactured land and labor. Inventories of new homes dropped fur-
pharmaceuticals expanded moderately. Deliveries of ther. One contact in California reported extremely high
commercial aircraft slowed to a modest pace, but orders presales in the residential market. Supply shortages
rose from the same period last year. One contact report- continued to fuel strong price increases, and affordability
ed that improved sales at some manufacturers boosted remained a concern in most metropolitan areas. Com-
their expected capital investments. mercial construction activity was solid. Contacts reported an uptick in commercial investment aimed at remodeling and repurposing large retail spaces for health-care and
Agriculture and Resource-Related Industries entertainment services. Financing conditions for com-
Activity in the agriculture sector picked up to a modest mercial projects tightened slightly.
pace over the reporting period. In the Central Valley of
California, yields of nuts and row crops were up over the
previous growing season. Ample water supplies boosted Financial Institutions
cherry harvests. On balance, improved global economic On balance, conditions in the financial services sector
conditions nudged up demand for some agriculture remained solid. Loan demand softened slightly, although
products, particularly pork. Increased global production contacts in the Pacific Northwest noted that, after a soft
pushed raisin inventories higher, reducing profitability for first quarter, lending activity picked up briskly in that
some growers. Demand for electricity was flat, and per- region. Credit quality, while strong by historical stand-
sistent surpluses hampered profitability. Contacts report- ards, deteriorated slightly for commercial and industrial
ed that financial distress at many independent power and auto loans. Deposits continued to increase but at a
generators continued to propel industry consolidation. slower pace than in previous months. Asset quality re-
Use of fossil fuels, particularly coal, in energy generation mained solid, and capital levels were at all-time highs.
continued to decline, while demand for renewables con- Net margins remained compressed, hindering bank
tinued to be robust. profitability, and contacts reported that community banks continued to consolidate. ■ L-2



