 For use at 2:00 p.m., E.S.T. Wednesday January 11, 2012
Summary of Commentary on ____________________ Current Economic Conditions By Federal Reserve District December 2011
 

   
  SUMMARY OF COMMENTARY ON CURRENT ECONOMIC CONDITIONS BY FEDERAL RESERVE DISTRICT DECEMBER 2011
 

   
  TABLE OF CONTENTS
Summary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . i
First District - Boston . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I-1
Second District - New York . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . II-1
Third District - Philadelphia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . III-1
Fourth District - Cleveland . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . IV-1
Fifth District - Richmond . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . V-1
Sixth District - Atlanta . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . VI-1
Seventh District - Chicago . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . VII-1
Eighth District - St. Louis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . VIII-1
Ninth District - Minneapolis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . IX-1
Tenth District - Kansas City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . X-1
Eleventh District - Dallas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . XI-1
Twelfth District - San Francisco . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . XII-1
 

 i Summary* Contact reports from the twelve Federal Reserve Districts suggest that national economic activity
expanded at a modest to moderate pace during the reporting period of late November through the end of
December. Seven Districts characterized growth as modest; of the remaining five, New York and
Chicago noted a pickup in the pace of growth, Dallas and San Francisco reported moderate growth, and
Richmond indicated that activity flattened or improved slightly. Compared with prior summaries, the
reports on balance suggest ongoing improvement in economic conditions in recent months, with most
Districts highlighting more favorable conditions than identified in reports from the late spring through
early fall. Consumer spending picked up in most Districts, reflecting significant gains in holiday retail sales
compared with last year’s season, and activity in the travel and tourism sector expanded in most areas.
Demand strengthened further for nonfinancial services, including professional and transportation services.
Manufacturing activity generally continued to expand, although the pace of growth has slowed for
selected subsectors such as technology products. Agricultural producers and extractors of natural
resources reported generally robust conditions. Activity stayed sluggish in residential real estate markets,
and conditions in commercial real estate markets remained somewhat soft overall but showed signs of
ongoing improvement in several Districts. Reports from financial institutions generally indicated a slight
uptick in loan demand by businesses, along with improvements in overall credit quality. Upward price pressures and price increases remained quite limited for most categories of final
goods and services, as the effects of prior increases in the costs of selected inputs have eased. Upward
wage pressures were modest overall, although a few Districts noted substantial compensation increases
for workers with specialized skills in selected sectors and regions.
Consumer Spending and Tourism Reports on consumer spending were favorable in general. Most Districts reported that holiday
retail sales were up noticeably over last year’s season, with New York and Dallas describing sales as
“brisk” and “robust,” respectively. Consumer spending and confidence generally were characterized as
firmer than in recent reporting periods, although Kansas City reported that spending softened. Items
                                                            
* Prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco and based on information collected on or before
December 30, 2011. This document summarizes comments received from business and other contacts
outside the Federal Reserve System and is not a commentary on the views of Federal Reserve officials.
 

 ii
identified as the strongest holiday sellers by various Districts included consumer electronics and jewelry,
and Chicago noted that luxury items in general sold well during the holiday season. By contrast, many
Districts reported weak sales and excess inventories of warm clothing, due to unusually mild weather.
Retail inventories more broadly were reported to be at or near desired levels, consistent with retailers’
sales expectations. Boston, New York, and Minneapolis noted exceptional growth in Internet sales for
selected items. Sales of new automobiles continued to pick up in most Districts. Among the more
favorable reports, Atlanta noted that the pace of auto sales in November and December was “the strongest
in over two years,” and strong demand and sales were reported as well by New York, Philadelphia,
Cleveland, and Minneapolis. Reports from most Districts pointed to solid gains or high levels of travel and tourist activity,
with pickups evident in both the business and leisure segments. Tourism activity was reported to be
above the levels from twelve months earlier by Boston, New York, Richmond, and Atlanta, and Boston
contacts expect double-digit growth in hotel revenues in 2012. By contrast, Minneapolis reported that
tourist activity was down because limited snowfall has stymied outdoor activities such as skiing and
snowmobiling, while Kansas City reported a decline because winter storms hampered some tourist
activity. Business travel activity also has expanded of late and is above levels from twelve months
earlier, according to Atlanta and San Francisco.
Nonfinancial Services Demand generally strengthened further for nonfinancial services. Providers of professional and
business services such as consulting, advertising, engineering, and legal services expanded their activities
according to Boston, Richmond, St. Louis, and Minneapolis. Sales of technology services to businesses
and consumers grew further, according to Minneapolis, Kansas City, and San Francisco, although the
pace of growth slowed from earlier in 2011. Providers of temporary staffing services saw strong and
rising demand in the Philadelphia, Cleveland, and Richmond Districts but below-average seasonal hiring
in the Chicago and Dallas Districts. Reports from the health-care sector generally pointed to growth as
well, with Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago, and St. Louis highlighting construction activity and bank lending
aimed at health-care providers. The exception to growing demand for health-care services was San
Francisco, which reported an ongoing decline in hospital admissions. Demand for shipping and
transportation services generally expanded. New York and Atlanta reported a significant increase in
shipping tonnage by truck, and Dallas noted a broad-based increase in shipments by rail. Atlanta reported
that port activity was up over twelve months earlier due to “notable strength in exports,” while Richmond
 

 iii
reported a decline in port activity that was largely attributed to reduced imports. Air travel was above
year-ago levels in the Atlanta District but unchanged over the past six weeks in the Dallas District.
Manufacturing Manufacturing activity expanded in most Districts, generally continuing its steady overall
expansion or, in the case of Atlanta, reversing a slowdown in prior periods. For the sector as a whole,
further growth or improved conditions were reported by almost all Districts, except for Cleveland,
Richmond, and Dallas, which reported that activity was largely stable or mixed, and Kansas City, which
noted a slight decline. The strongest reports came from subsectors such as heavy equipment
manufacturing and steel, for which demand has been boosted by robust growth in the energy, agricultural,
and auto manufacturing sectors. Reports from Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, and St. Louis
confirmed vibrant activity for auto manufacturers, primarily for domestic makes. By contrast, demand
remained somewhat weak for firms in housing-related subsectors, such as a door manufacturer in the
Richmond District, furniture manufacturers there and in the St. Louis and San Francisco Districts, and
makers of lumber and wood products in the San Francisco District. Demand for computers and related
electronic components rose further, according to Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco. However, the
pace of growth has slowed significantly from earlier in 2011, and Boston noted declining sales of
semiconductors, mainly due to weaker demand from Asia. According to Dallas and San Francisco,
aircraft makers saw further demand increases. Those Districts also noted weak domestic demand for
refined petroleum products that was largely or completely offset by robust foreign demand. Demand
grew smartly for food producers in the Philadelphia and Dallas Districts, but in the Kansas City District
food processing was one of the weakest performers within the manufacturing sector. Export sales of
assorted manufactured products generally performed well according to Atlanta and Chicago, although
slower economic growth in China and Europe held back sales for some manufacturers. Cleveland reported that capacity utilization remained below normal in most subsectors, with the
notable exception of steel producers, who were operating at or near normal levels. Similarly, Chicago
noted that some auto suppliers appear to be approaching capacity constraints, which may limit further
production increases in the near term. Atlanta reported that recent flooding in Thailand was likely to
exert modest restraint on auto production. Ongoing capital investments and increases in capacity were
reported for various manufacturing concerns in the St. Louis and Minneapolis Districts and for an auto
producer in the Richmond District.
 

 iv
Real Estate and Construction Activity in residential real estate markets largely held steady at very low levels, with the
exception of further increases in the construction of multifamily residences. The pace of single-family
home sales remained quite sluggish throughout the country, although the Dallas District reported a
modest increase over the prior reporting period. Some Districts, such as Boston and Atlanta, noted that
home sales exceeded levels from twelve months earlier, but mainly because the earlier levels reflected a
substantial drop following the expiration of the homebuyers’ tax credit in mid-2010. Prices were largely
stable on a short-term basis in most areas but in many instances were below their levels from twelve
months earlier. Extensive inventories of distressed properties were reported to be a source of price
restraint in the Boston, Richmond, Chicago, and San Francisco Districts. Construction of single-family
homes remained at depressed levels in most areas and fell further in some, such as the Philadelphia, St.
Louis, Minneapolis, and Kansas City Districts. However, Cleveland reported that activity improved
during the past couple of months. In contrast to the soft market for single-family residences, the market
for rental units tightened in some areas such as the New York and Richmond Districts, and construction
of multifamily residences rose in the Boston, Philadelphia, Chicago, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts. Demand for nonresidential real estate remained somewhat soft overall but improved in a number
of Districts. Vacancy rates and other indicators in markets for office space were largely unchanged in the
major metropolitan markets in the Boston, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, and St. Louis Districts.
By contrast, New York reported that demand for office space “picked up in late 2011,” causing vacancy
rates to edge down and asking rents to rise. Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, San Francisco, Atlanta,
and Chicago all reported stronger demand for commercial real estate compared with earlier in 2011, and
the latter two Districts also noted a pickup in nonresidential construction activity. Cleveland and Chicago
reported that the strongest demand and most extensive construction activity has been for industrial and
health-care facilities, while Minneapolis highlighted growing demand for industrial space and San
Francisco stressed growing demand emanating from the information technology sector.
Banking and Finance Lending activity edged up overall, primarily due to increased loan demand by businesses. Most
Districts that commented on lending activity indicated little or no change in overall loan demand, but the
remaining Districts identified increases rather than decreases. New York reported a pronounced increase
in demand for commercial mortgages, and Cleveland also noted increased demand in this category. Both
Dallas and San Francisco noted a slight uptick in commercial and industrial lending. Consumer lending
was largely flat compared with the prior reporting period, although auto loans rose in Cleveland. New
 

 v
York, Philadelphia, and Cleveland reported demand growth or continued strength for refinancing of
residential mortgages. Lending standards were largely unchanged across all lending categories. However, New York
reported slight tightening for commercial and industrial loans. Moreover, a few reports highlighted that
small businesses continued to struggle with credit access through banks. In the Atlanta District, some
small businesses have turned to nonbank institutions for financing, and in the Chicago District some
manufacturers have been financing loans to their suppliers from retained earnings. Credit quality
improved in many Districts: New York reported a decline in delinquency rates for all loan categories,
while Philadelphia, Richmond, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco all reported general improvement
in loan quality.
Agriculture and Natural Resources Demand for agricultural products was strong during the reporting period, but growing conditions
and input prices were mixed. Farm income and profits were reported to be at very high levels by Chicago
and Kansas City, enabling many farmers to repay loans and expand their operations, and San Francisco
reported further sales growth for a variety of agricultural products. Rising foreign demand was noted as a
source of strength for livestock sales in the Atlanta and Dallas Districts and for dairy and meat products in
the Chicago District. Growing conditions were somewhat mixed across areas. Farmers and livestock
producers in the Atlanta and Dallas Districts have been struggling with ongoing droughts, which have
required costly responses such as supplemental feeding of livestock. While timely rains eased drought
conditions somewhat in the Dallas and Kansas City Districts, wheat farmers in the latter are hoping for
more protective snow cover for the winter crop’s dormancy period. In addition, high or rising prices for
some inputs were noted by Chicago and Kansas City, tempering farmers’ profit expectations for the
coming year. Demand and extraction activity rose further for producers of natural resource products. Energy
extraction has been on the upswing. Atlanta reported that companies have been expanding their
workforces and increasing their production capacity and exploration plans in the Gulf of Mexico.
Minneapolis and Kansas City reported that oil and gas exploration and extraction activity were well above
their levels from twelve months earlier, and Dallas noted that a high level of activity is expected to
resume in early 2012 following a year-end seasonal lull. Minneapolis and San Francisco reported
expansion of mining capacity and activity for a range of industrial and precious metals.
 

 vi
Prices and Wages Upward price pressures and price increases were very limited during the reporting period.
Reports from various Districts, including Boston, Atlanta, and Chicago, indicated that upward price
pressures from rising commodity and input prices have eased substantially, with Boston noting that “even
food prices have ceased rising.” Atlanta reported that firms have limited pricing power in general, and
San Francisco pointed to intense supplier competition as a factor holding down prices. Similarly, Kansas
City reported a recent uptick in input prices but noted that few manufacturers passed these increases on to
the prices of their finished goods. Wage pressures remained modest overall. The combination of limited permanent hiring in most
sectors and numerous active job seekers has continued to keep a lid on general wage increases. However,
reports from a few Districts highlighted significant supply constraints and in some cases large
compensation increases for workers with specialized skills in selected sectors, including the energy sector
in the Dallas District and the technology sector in the San Francisco District. On a related note,
Minneapolis reported that employers have increased relocation pay for employees willing to settle in parts
of that District where worker availability is limited. Increases in the costs of employee health benefits
continued to put significant upward pressure on overall compensation costs, although some employers in
the Philadelphia District reported significant rollbacks from past increases.
 

   I-1 FIRST DISTRICT – BOSTON Most business contacts in the First District report modest revenue growth from a year earlier.
Retailers are somewhat more positive than in preceding months, with 2011 sales projected to come in
higher than 2010. Manufacturers’ reports are similar to the last round; most firms cite somewhat slower
sales growth than earlier in the year, while a couple of semiconductor-related firms saw sales fall off (they
believe temporarily). Commercial and residential real estate markets remain weak, but are not expected to
deteriorate further. Advertising and consulting firms, by contrast, say business improved noticeably
between the third and the fourth quarters, bringing a strong 2011 to a close. Some firms are hiring, but
modestly; wage increases, if occurring, remain moderate. Price pressures continue to ease. Most contacts
expect a continuation of current modest growth trends, notwithstanding uncertainties related to Europe
and U.S. budget deliberations.
Retail and Tourism As in mid-November, retail contacts for this round report a slight improvement in business
conditions from earlier in the year. Comparable-store sales in the fourth quarter for most contacts range
from flat to up 2 percent from a year earlier; one retailer saw a drop in in-store foot traffic for December
but a tripling in Internet sales. One is projecting annual sales for 2011 will be down about 5 percent, but
this represents an improvement compared with sales declines of 10 percent in the first half of the year.
Contacts with a web-based presence report sales strength in this area, and some are adding staff and
making investments to better service customers buying online. Planned salary increases for 2012 range
from 2 percent to 3 percent for merit-related raises; none of the retail contacts is planning to offer a cost-
of-living adjustment. The travel and tourism sector continues to project a 5 percent to 8 percent increase for 2011 over
2010. Data from the first week of December show strong performance. The industry foresees a robust
2012, taking heart from Q1 projections based on advance bookings. Preliminary predictions are that 2012
hotel revenue per available room will increase 10 percent to 12 percent over 2011. Restaurant sales, while
much harder to project, are estimated to grow 3 percent in 2012 over 2011, an improvement over the 1.5
percent estimated for 2011 over 2010.
Manufacturing and Related Services Not much has changed since our last manufacturing report in mid-November. Most contacts
report growing sales and some are hiring, albeit in small numbers. Two contacts in the semiconductor
industry report a substantial weakening of business in the summer and fall but both seem optimistic that
the decline is transitory. Overall, the mood remains cautious. Of the 13 manufacturing contacts in this cycle, nine report higher sales, two cite flat sales and two
declining sales. The two firms with falls in sales are in the semiconductor business and both depend
heavily on Asia for demand. Of these two, a manufacturer of analog semiconductors says orders peaked
in the June quarter and bottomed out in September; since sales follow orders with a lag, sales declined in
the fourth quarter, ending an 11-quarter streak of quarter-on-quarter sales growth. The two contacts differ
on the source of the problem, with one attributing it to China-specific issues and the other arguing that the
underlying causes are broad-based.
 

   I-2 For contacts reporting higher sales, growth recently is moderate compared to the rapid growth
they experienced in the last few years. One firm said that while sales were likely to be up about 15
percent for the year, the fourth quarter would clock in at only about 5 percent. Europe is cited as a
problem, although two contacts say that they have yet to see evidence of a recession in northern Europe.
One contact at a medical equipment supplier says that debt problems in Europe do not appear to have
affected the health care sector; another contact at a large diversified manufacturing firm argues that there
is an incipient credit crunch in Europe. On pricing, the complaints about escalating input prices have more or less stopped; contacts say
even food prices have ceased rising. A year ago, virtually every contact talked about high commodity
prices and, in some cases, shortages, but now the only comments relate to limited pricing pressure. Five contacts report that they are hiring, eight report flat to maybe a small decline and none
reports any significant staff reductions. Several contacts mention that they are having trouble finding
qualified staff, but some have come up with more creative ways to bring in the right people. Firms
continue to devote resources to capital expenditures. None reports any problems raising money to pay for
needed investment and, in fact, many are able to finance all capital spending with retained earnings. The outlook remains guarded; general concerns about “macroeconomic uncertainty” remain. The
two firms reporting lower sales are fairly optimistic that the dip is transitory. In general, firms with
greater exposure to Europe are more concerned than firms focused on the domestic market.
Selected Business Services Consulting and advertising contacts in the First District report strong growth in the fourth quarter
after a generally weaker third quarter. Marketing and advertising contacts indicate that 2011 growth has
averaged 8 percent to 9 percent (annual rate), driven largely by an increase in large orders from large
clients. Strategy and business consulting contacts report low double-digit annualized growth, driven by
strong private equity business, mergers and acquisitions, and corporate consulting. Contacts note that
many clients have a lot of cash and are becoming more confident that – despite risks – the U.S. economy
will “muddle through” and thus are willing to spend. In addition, consulting firms have seen a shift in
demand towards services that can be directly tied to the bottom line such as sales and process efficiency
rather than strategy and management. The majority of consulting and advertising contacts reports minimal increases in the prices they
charge, held down by both competitive pressures and modest cost increases. Compensation increases are
generally in the mid single digits and contacts report steady or growing profit margins. By exception, two
contacts raised prices by 5 percent to 10 percent because of strong demand for their services. Hiring activity continues to be mixed. Two consulting contacts report strong 2011 employment
growth, while three firms kept employment flat and one continued a year-long downsizing process. The
two firms reporting job growth expect hiring to remain strong (about 10 percent) in 2012, while a
marketing firm plans to increase employment modestly, and the other firms expect flat 2012 employment.
Firms that increased employment did so to keep up with a growing workload, while firms downsizing in
the third or fourth quarter emphasized cost controls. All respondents are more optimistic now than when contacted in the third quarter, with the
 

   I-3
exception of one firm that has done exceptionally well all year. The improved outlook is mostly due to the
strong fourth quarter indicating that the third quarter was only a temporary rough patch.
Commercial Real Estate Commercial leasing activity across the First District was flat to down in recent weeks, in line with
typical seasonal patterns. In Hartford, leasing activity saw a modest seasonal slowdown in December and
business sentiment held steady. Activity slowed modestly in Providence as well, also in line with year-
end expectations, but deals in the works as of the previous report moved forward as expected and pending
deals are set to boost absorption of Class A office space in the first quarter of 2012. Greater Portland also
registered a modest seasonal leasing slowdown in December, but saw a decline in the office vacancy rate
on a year-over-year basis, to 10.8 percent from 11.2 percent. Boston’s leasing market held roughly steady,
with modest positive absorption in suburban corridors as well as in the sought-after neighborhoods of
Back Bay and East Cambridge. Rents remain flat for downtown office space on lower floors of buildings
but are rising for upper-floor space in prime high-rise structures. Despite positive absorption in 2011, one
contact says Boston’s downtown office vacancy rate remains undesirably high at about 16 percent. Construction activity remains limited across the region, with the ongoing exception of
multifamily construction in greater Boston. The lack of speculative office construction is attributed to the
fact that building costs continue to exceed expected rents. The investment sales market remains active in
Boston as prices signal an ongoing willingness of buyers to accept low rates of return for prime
properties. A Portland contact predicts an increase in sales activity in that market in the coming months as
borrowers seek to take advantage of very low mortgage interest rates. The outlook among contacts is unchanged since the last report, with forecasts calling for modest
improvements in office fundamentals in 2012, roughly on par with the experience of 2011. While some
see upside potential in office rents, downside risks are also noted, such as possible closures in the retail
sector and ongoing political gridlock.
Residential Real Estate Sales figures in the New England single-family home and condominium market increased in
November compared to a year ago, with the growth largely reflecting lackluster year-earlier sales
numbers following the expiration of the tax credit in mid-2010. Contacts reiterated concerns about weak
demand, citing poor labor market conditions and stricter lending requirements. A contact from Greater
Boston contrasts the local market with the rest of the New England region, saying that the Greater Boston
area showed possible signs of improvement due to strengthening employment conditions in the city.
Meanwhile, throughout New England, the median sale price of homes and condos fell in November
compared to a year ago; contacts attribute the declines to a rise in sales of distressed properties. The price
decreases were uneven across the region, with Maine slipping by less than 1 percent and Connecticut
prices falling by over 10 percent. The median price of condos fell more sharply than home prices. The outlook remains largely the same as in previous reports. Contacts expect sales activity to
remain slow in the coming months, but believe prices will stabilize in the region. They do not expect
further weakening in the market but also do not anticipate significant recovery in the near term.
 

 II-1 SECOND DISTRICT--NEW YORK The Second District’s economy has grown at a somewhat faster pace since the last report, led
by brisk holiday-season spending. Labor market conditions, as well as prices, have remained
generally stable. Manufacturers report modestly improved general business conditions and steady
employment since the last report, along with increased optimism about the near-term outlook.
Retailers generally characterize holiday season spending as robust, particularly in the final days
before Christmas and right after. Auto dealers report that sales have remained strong since the last
report. Tourism activity has held steady at a high level. Conditions have generally remained stable
in the housing market, though the rental market has continued to improve. Commercial real estate
markets have been stable to moderately stronger in late 2011. Finally, bankers report increased loan
demand, steady to somewhat tighter credit standards, and lower delinquency rates across the board.
Consumer Spending Retailers generally characterize holiday-season spending as strong and most report that sales
were on or above plan. A trade association survey of retailers across New York State points to robust
spending, particularly in the final week before Christmas and on the day after; most contacts
indicated that sales were at least as strong as in 2010, led by electronics—particularly video games
and consoles. One large retail chain reports that November-December sales were above plan and up
moderately from a year earlier, while another major chain indicates that sales were down from 2010
levels but still roughly on plan. Both contacts note that unseasonably mild weather hampered sales
of outerwear and other seasonal apparel. However, two major malls in upstate New York say that
mild weather—along with brisk demand from Canadian shoppers—contributed to strong sales in
November and early December. A number of contacts also note exceptional strength in on-line sales,
with some reporting year-over-year gains in excess of 40 percent. Retail prices are reported to be
generally stable.
 

 II-2 Auto dealers in upstate New York report that sales activity continued to be robust in
November and early December, running well ahead of comparable 2010 levels—particularly for used
vehicles. Inventories have risen along with sales but remain tight for some of the more popular
models. Wholesale and retail credit conditions remain favorable. Consumer confidence has rebounded from its October lows. The Conference Board’s survey
of residents of the Middle Atlantic states (NY, NJ, PA) shows consumer confidence rising sharply in
both November and December, back up to the levels seen last spring. Results from Siena College’s
November survey of New York State residents (latest available) shows consumer confidence
rebounding moderately. Tourism activity has held generally steady at a strong level since the last
report. New York City hotels report that occupancy rates continued to run at just over 85 percent in
November and the first few weeks of December—up moderately from a year earlier. Room rates
were up 2-3 percent from a year earlier, and total revenues per room were up about 6 percent, though
total revenues in the local hospitality industry are up considerably more due to an increased number
of hotel rooms. On a more negative note, though, Broadway theaters report that attendance
continued to run roughly 5 percent below year-ago levels in December, while revenues fell below
comparable 2010 levels for the first time since the August hurricane.
Construction and Real Estate Residential rental markets continue to strengthen, while real estate sales have shown little
change since the last report and new development activity continues to be sluggish. New York City’s
rental market remains tight: rents continue to rise, as the inventory of available units remains lean.
Manhattan co-op and condo prices were little changed in the fourth quarter, while sales activity
slowed from its fairly brisk third quarter pace. Market conditions were reported to be similar in
Brooklyn but a bit softer in the other boroughs and on Long Island. On a more positive note, one
industry expert in New Jersey sees improved fundamentals in the housing market and foresees a
 

 II-3
pickup in market conditions in 2012. Real estate contacts in other parts of the District also note some
increase in optimism among developers. Commercial real estate markets have been steady to somewhat stronger since the last report.
New York City’s office market has picked up in late 2011, with office vacancy rates edging down
and asking rents rising. There were also modest signs of improvement in Westchester and Fairfield
counties and in the Albany area, whereas office markets in northern New Jersey and western New
York State appear to have slackened modestly. Industrial leasing markets were generally steady
overall: conditions firmed in Long Island but showed some signs of softening across upstate New
York; in the rest of the District, conditions were little changed.
Other Business Activity A major New York City employment agency reports that hiring activity has slowed
somewhat since October, particularly in the financial services sector, but notes that it is difficult to
gauge the underlying climate during this typically slow season. Contacts at major retail chains
indicated that they hired more seasonal workers this year than last. More broadly, both
manufacturers and service-sector firms continue to report that employment levels at their firms
remain steady, on average, though a growing number of manufacturing contacts across New York
State plan to hire more workers in the months ahead. Manufacturers across New York State report that general business conditions improved since
the last report, and respondents have grown considerably more optimistic about the near-term
outlook. Both manufacturers and other firms report that their selling prices remain flat, though a
growing number expect to raise prices in the months ahead. Separately, a contact in the trucking
industry reports that shipping tonnage (volume) has picked up considerably in recent months and was
up 6 percent from a year earlier in November.
Financial Developments Bankers report an increase in demand for all loan categories except consumer loans, where
 

 II-4
demand held steady. The increase was most prevalent for commercial mortgages where four times as
many bankers reported rising than falling demand. Respondents also indicate widespread increases
in demand for refinancing. Bankers’ responses suggest some tightening of credit standards for
commercial and industrial loans, but no change for the other loan categories. No banker reported an
easing of standards in any category. Respondents note a decrease in spreads of loan rates over costs
of funds for all loan categories. Bankers also indicate widespread decreases in the average deposit
rate. Delinquency rates are reported to have decreased for all loan categories. The improvement
was most prevalent in commercial and industrial loans, where nearly three times as many
respondents reported lower than higher delinquencies.
 

 III - 1 THIRD DISTRICT – PHILADELPHIA Overall business activity in the Third District has continued to grow modestly since the
previous Beige Book, with various sectors experiencing typical seasonal patterns – positive and
negative. Since the last Beige Book, manufacturing activity has continued to grow modestly with
some signs of a seasonal slowdown. Retail sales overall generally increased for the holiday
season, meeting seasonal expectations. Motor vehicle dealers experienced further strong sales
growth and strong pricing power, overcoming some of the typical seasonal drag. Third District
banks have reported slight growth in loan volume outstanding since the last Beige Book. New
home construction slowed further, driven by seasonal trends and falling prices for existing
homes. Commercial real estate contacts continued to report slow growth year-over-year,
although anticipated seasonal slowing has been a factor since the last Beige Book. Service-sector
firms reported generally modest growth. Price pressures remained contained for most sectors,
with little change from the last Beige Book. The general outlook seems to have improved for most firms since the last Beige Book.
Manufacturers anticipate rising shipments and orders during the next six months. Retailers
expect slightly stronger sales, and auto dealers are increasingly confident that pent-up demand
will carry well into the spring selling season. Banking, real estate, and service-sector firms
continue to plan for slow growth in 2012. Many have voiced concerns over the ongoing lack of a
housing recovery, the threat from Europe’s economic woes, and the indecision on numerous
federal budget issues. Manufacturing. Since the last Beige Book, Third District manufacturers have reported
further modest increases in new orders and shipments. Gains were widespread among the makers
of industrial machinery and equipment, and of food products. Similarly, a supplier to the broad
industrial market confirmed continued growth but noted some softness of a seasonal nature.
Some makers of lumber and wood products and of electrical machinery reported seasonal
slowing. However, one electrical equipment firm logged the worst month of orders in five years.
Several contacts attributed additional slowing to end-of-year inventory adjustments. Contacts in
primary metals reported mixed results dependent upon their firm’s market orientation, for
example, to Europe or to the domestic auto industry. Most Third District manufacturers remain split between expecting business conditions to
improve during the next six months and expecting conditions to stay the same. This overall
 

 III - 2
positive tendency has pervaded more sectors since the last Beige Book. However, the currently
low seasonal demand, cited by many firms, may be a large factor in the anticipation of near-term
gains. Manufacturing contacts continued to cite weak housing markets as a drag, Europe’s woes
as a threat, and rising auto demand as a positive factor. Expectations of capital spending and
future hiring also remain positive but have moderated since the last Beige Book. Retail. Third District retailers reported strong holiday sales in November and positive,
but softer, sales in December. An outlet operator recounted that the typical budget-conscious,
discount-driven consumer shopped early, then faded somewhat. The longer shopping season and
added store hours produced greater overall sales volumes but also increased the wage bill for
hourly workers. Profits for the season were maintained by closely watching inventories and
markdown levels. Unseasonably warm weather dampened sales of cold-weather goods, but “rain
boots sold well.” Prospects beyond this holiday season are expected to follow recent trends with
high-end, online, and outlet market segments attracting the most consumer spending. Auto sales remained unseasonably strong through November and December, according to
a Third District industry contact. With still a little more demand than supply, dealers continue to
offer less discounting and earn better grosses. Also, pent-up demand remains strong. An industry
contact indicated that dealers may begin hiring if robust sales continue into the spring season. Finance. Overall loan volumes continued to expand slightly in the Third District since
the previous Beige Book; however, many bankers reported difficulty maintaining loan volumes.
Some reported turning down deposits for lack of sufficient lending opportunities. The strongest
loan growth continued to emerge in home mortgages, including refinancings. Commercial real
estate and C&I lending were flat. Credit quality continued to improve somewhat. Third District
bankers expressed several concerns, including Europe’s economic problems, a lack of recovery
in the housing market, uncertainty and a lack of confidence with Washington, and uncertainty
over the renewal of federal contracts. Real Estate and Construction. Residential builders are “glad to have 2011 behind”
them. Builders reported that the year closed with sales activity slowing somewhat more than
seasonal trends would predict due to lack of confidence, as existing home prices continued to fall
in most markets. Some of the activity reported in the last Beige Book dissipated, as builders were
unable to close on contracts. New construction activity continues to shift from the single-family
market toward the multifamily market. Some builders are planning for growth in 2012, even
 

 III - 3
some hiring. However, their plans assume an increase in market share and an expectation that
some competitors will not endure a seventh consecutive year with little or no growth. During a seasonally slow period for most nonresidential real estate activity, contacts have
reported no significant changes since the last Beige Book. The seasonal lull should generate a
little pickup in leasing in early 2012. The sudden announcement in early December of an
immediate refinery closing, not anticipated until early 2012, sent hundreds of workers home,
including construction workers with jobs associated with facility maintenance and repair. A few
weeks later another refinery, currently in the process of restarting, announced expansion plans.
New construction and renovation plans remain mostly limited to institutional, life sciences,
multifamily, and warehousing sectors in select markets. A portion of the new construction,
especially for warehousing, represents market shifts among regions, rather than net overall
market growth. The overall outlook for demand of nonresidential space is for continued slow
growth. Services. Third District service-sector firms have continued to report modest growth
since the last Beige Book. A staffing firm noted that firms appear busier, based upon an end-of-
year uptick in short-term contracts to provide coverage for vacations and extra holiday business –
a pattern not observed since the recession began. The overall trend toward temporary or contract
basis for new placements, rather than permanent, full-time hires, remains unchanged. Contacts
indicated that financial services will face challenges in 2012, and many sources expressed
concern for defense-related activity in the wake of recent and ongoing federal budget
indecisions. The majority of service-sector firms anticipate slowly improving growth rates
through 2012. Prices and Wages. On balance, price levels have changed little since the previous Beige
Book. Auto dealers and freight shippers still command favorable pricing power. Several
manufacturing firms recently raised prices and have yet to observe any pushback from their
customers. Retailers and homebuilders continue to report very tight margins. Builders are
worried about ongoing closures along their supply chain as the recession in construction
continues. Substantial cost increases are anticipated when a recovery emerges and triggers
demand for more building materials. Although exceptions exist within specific submarkets,
concessions are still expected of many bankers, builders, and leasing agents. Most firms reported
no significant upward wage pressure. While most firms are anticipating greater increases in
health benefit costs, a few have indicated a significant rollback from last year’s large rate hike.
 

 IV - 1 FOURTH DISTRICT – CLEVELAND The economy in the Fourth District grew at a slow pace during the past six weeks.
Manufacturers reported that new orders and production were stable. Single-family home
construction improved slightly, while nonresidential builders saw a drop-off in inquiries and
weak backlogs. November retail and motor vehicle sales were little changed from the prior
month. Activity in shale gas drilling and production expanded. Freight transport volume slowed
along seasonal trends. The demand for credit by businesses and households was characterized as
either steady or increasing slightly. Labor market reports indicated that hiring remains at a low level, while recruiting high-
skilled workers was difficult. Staffing-firm representatives saw growth in the number of new job
openings, with vacancies concentrated in healthcare and energy. Wage pressures were largely
contained. Other than a boost in steel prices, upward pressure on raw material prices has abated. Manufacturing. New orders and production at District factories were mainly stable
during the past six weeks. Any declines were attributed to seasonal factors or lessening demand
from European and Chinese customers. Compared to year-ago levels, the majority of our
contacts noted a moderate improvement in output. However, they are cautious in their outlook
and expect little change in demand during the upcoming months. Most steel producers and
service centers reported that shipping volume was steady along seasonal trends, although two of
our contacts noted an unexpected pickup for this time of year. Demand is being driven by autos,
energy, and heavy equipment industries. Steel representatives are hopeful about the first quarter
of 2012, and most expect to see at least modest growth. District auto production showed a
substantial decline during November on a month-over-month basis, more so for foreign
nameplates. Most of the decline was attributed to supply chain issues. Year-over-year, domestic
auto producers’ output rose significantly, while their foreign counterparts posted moderate
declines. Capacity utilization was below normal at most factories, while steel producers saw their
utilization rates at or near normal levels. Inventories were in line with sales for the majority of
our contacts. Manufacturers told us that their capital outlays have reached targeted levels for the
year. Only a few respondents indicated that they expect to significantly raise their capital
budgets for 2012. Other than steel, raw material prices were steady during the past few weeks.
We heard several reports about steel producers raising their prices and the possibility of a second
round of increases early in 2012. New hiring remained at a low level. Those adding to payrolls
found it difficult to recruit professional and high-skilled production workers. Wage pressures are
contained. Construction. Single-family home construction was described as better during the past
couple of months, with sales contracts distributed across all price-point categories. Builders
 

 IV - 2
were slightly more optimistic in their outlook, but they are not expecting an industry turnaround
in the near term. We heard a report that homebuilders’ inventories are on a decline in some parts
of the District, which should help boost new-home construction during 2012. Not much change
was seen in the list prices of new homes, though two of our contacts noted a greater use of
discounting. A few subcontractors attempted to raise billing rates, but they were unsuccessful.
Employment and wages were stable. Activity in nonresidential construction for small to medium-size builders was steady,
although the number of inquiries has fallen off during the past few weeks. The biggest
challenges facing nonresidential contractors continue to be financing projects and adding to
backlog. Construction contracts were primarily with manufacturers and health-care providers.
Builders are uncertain about future prospects. One contractor noted that he does not expect a
major pick-up through at least the first half of 2012. On balance, building material prices were
stable. The number of reports about sub contractors going out of businesses rose, while general
contracting payrolls showed a slight decline. Consumer Spending. Retailers reported that November sales were stable or slightly
higher relative to October sales. According to a few of our contacts, a milder than expected
autumn was holding back purchases of cold weather-related items, while purchases of electronics
and home furnishings were better than expected. On a year-over-year basis, results were mixed.
Sales for the first quarter of 2012 are generally expected to improve over prior-year levels,
mainly in the low- to mid-single digits. Some retailers expressed caution about 2012 given the
fragility of household balance sheets. Upward pressure on supplier costs has abated during the
past six weeks. Inventories were characterized as good except for apparel items, which are
higher than desired. Capital budgets were on plan. Most of our contacts said that outlays during
2012 will not change appreciably from this year’s levels and that outlays will be used mainly for
technology enhancements and remodeling. Other than seasonal hiring, there was little change in
employment at existing stores. Auto dealers reported that new-vehicle sales during November remained strong. On a
year-over-year basis, sales volume was largely higher. Dealers saw robust demand for all
vehicle types. A few dealers noted that their inventories are now adequate. Others said that
inventories are low, which they attributed to brisk sales. The outlook for 2012 is somewhat
tentative, mainly because of uncertainty. Purchases of used vehicles have fallen off slightly, due
in part to a supply shortage. We heard reports about some easing of credit restrictions, while
interest rates were very competitive. Dealers are investing in manufacturer-mandated facility
upgrades and imaging programs. The few dealers looking to hire reported that it is difficult to
find qualified candidates, especially sales representatives and service technicians.
 

 IV - 3 Banking. Demand for business loans was characterized as either stable or increasing.
Requests are being driven by commercial real estate, notably multifamily housing, and
healthcare. On the consumer side, our contacts described installment loan activity as flat or up a
bit. Auto lending (direct and indirect) and home equity lines of credit continued to show
strength. Bankers said that they have not seen a bump up in the use of credit cards during the
holiday shopping season. Interest rates for business and consumer credit were very competitive.
Activity in the residential mortgage market has been solid in the fourth quarter, driven by low
interest rates. Most applicants are looking to refinance. No changes were made to loan
application standards. Delinquencies were steady or declined across most loan categories; any
stress was found in real estate portfolios and credit cards. Overall core deposits grew, although a
few bankers commented that growth is being driven by business customers. Payrolls were
stable, with little hiring expected in the near term. Energy. Conventional oil and natural gas production was mainly steady during the past
few weeks, with little change expected in the upcoming months. Our contacts were uncertain
about future gas drilling due to eroding natural gas prices. Well-head prices for oil were flat, but
remained elevated. Activity in shale-gas extraction expanded. Coal output was stable, though it
may decline during 2012 due to an easing in demand for thermal and metallurgical coals from
European customers and domestic power producers. The latter was attributed to abundant
supplies of low-priced natural gas and regulatory compliance issues for coal-fired generators.
Spot prices for several types of coal have fallen off. Capital outlays are on target, with moderate
increases projected by oil and gas companies in the upcoming months. The cost of production
equipment and materials was generally flat during the past six weeks. Energy payrolls held
steady. A few small oil and gas producers are beginning to experience wage pressures brought
on by competition from large firms engaged in shale gas exploration and production. Transportation. Freight transport volume has slowed during the past few weeks,
following seasonal trends. Strong demand was still seen from the energy and manufacturing
sectors. Our contacts expect volume to grow at a slow, steady pace during 2012, with
predictions in the mid-single digits. We heard numerous reports of rising prices for parts,
especially tires, and of some volatility in fuel prices. Much of the cost increase was recovered
via fuel surcharges and rate adjustments when contracts came due. Capital outlays were on plan
for 2011. Most of our contacts expect to increase their capital budgets during 2012 for fleet
expansion and to replace aging equipment. Operators reported hiring for driver replacement or
adding capacity, although recruiting qualified drivers is difficult. Wage pressures exist due to a
tightening of the driver pool.
 

 V-1 FIFTH DISTRICT–RICHMOND Overview. District economic activity generally flattened or improved slightly since our last
report. Manufacturing activity was little changed in late November through mid December, while port
activity slowed. Retail reports were mixed; notably, several car dealers reported higher sales of used and
new vehicles. Non-retail services firms also reported stronger revenues in recent weeks. In addition, most
tourism contacts indicated bookings were up. In finance, however, loan demand continued to be weak,
with the exception of commercial loans. Likewise, residential real estate activity generally declined. We
received mixed reports on commercial real estate activity. Manufacturing employment declined
somewhat, while the average workweek ticked up and wages advanced in line with our last report.
Retailers reduced their payrolls and wages flattened, while non-retail services providers added to their
payrolls and average wages increased in that subsector. Manufacturing. District manufacturing activity remained flat since our last report. Our latest
survey showed little change in shipments, but a slight increase in new orders. A producer of residential
doors reported that business at his firm remained depressed. Similarly, a furniture manufacturer said that
demand was generally sluggish across all categories, particularly for residential furniture. In contrast, a
fabricated metal producer cited an improvement in December’s order volume, which he attributed to
customers placing orders in advance of higher basic metals prices. That increase in orders allowed his
company to operate at capacity and avoid employee layoffs. Moreover, an automobile parts manufacturer
ordered new manufacturing equipment due to increased demand and the need to reduce employee
overtime. According to our survey respondents, both raw materials prices and finished goods prices grew
at a notably slower pace than a month ago. Port activity in the Fifth District slowed in recent weeks, with imports coming in below earlier
expectations. Several officials reported that imports have turned flat on a year-over-year basis, after
modest gains during the summer had raised hopes of continued improvements through the remainder of
the year. One analyst stated that the typical autumn “bump” in retail orders did not occur this year. A
modest uptick of imports is still expected in January, ahead of Asian plant closings for the Chinese New
Year in February. In contrast, most port officials expected robust exports, especially for non-container
goods. A late harvest has led to increases in grain exports, according to one official. Nonetheless,
shipping rates are low and carriers are losing money, causing several analysts to expect increased
pressures among carriers to consolidate. Retail. Retail merchants gave mixed sales reports, while wholesalers generally indicated a
pickup. The manager of a chain discount store in North Carolina described sales as “erratic,” and a
contact in the Tidewater area noted that sales were unchanged, even with increased foot traffic. Unusually
warm weather in the District depressed sales of winter apparel. Toys and electronics, particularly
 

 V-2
televisions, moved briskly in recent weeks. A retailer told us that customers have returned as much as a
third of the items previously placed on lay-away before finishing the payments, because, customers said,
they “need the money.” Although big-ticket sales were down slightly, there were reports of improvement.
Jewelers generally reported robust sales. Although higher prices for gold and precious gems damped sales
at some stores, other items such as silver remained in demand. Rising cotton prices continued to push up
apparel prices. According to several car dealers, strong used-vehicle demand increased trade-in equity.
Low interest rates and the rising average age of vehicles on the road also helped move new cars. On the
whole, retail price increases were smaller since our last report. Services. Revenues at non-retail services firms accelerated in recent weeks. Hospital and other
healthcare contacts noted that mergers have increased among smaller hospitals and physician practices, as
changes in healthcare roll out. Nursing home executives also expressed concern about reduced Medicare
payments and the inability of potential resident-care patients to sell their homes. Revenues rose more
quickly at medical records management firms, temp staffing agencies, and telecommunications firms. In
addition, a pickup in business at engineering firms was noted in recent weeks. An engineering contact in
West Virginia commented that old projects that “have been on the shelf” were proceeding. Prices at
services firms increased at a somewhat faster pace since our last report. Finance. Loan demand in the District continued to be generally weak. A West Virginia banker
reported that local lending was weak, with no increase for some time. A South Carolina banker cited a
decline in the number of outstanding loans. Also, several bank officials around the District noted that,
except for multi-family building and refinancing, real estate lending continued to be quite soft. Several
bank officials attributed weak loan demand to a lack of confidence on the part of businesses. However, a
number of commercial developers noted greater difficulty getting their loans approved. In contrast, an
analyst for a large bank in the District reported that commercial lending improved slightly over the last
few months, led by small business needs for new capital equipment. A lending officer in Richmond also
noted improvement in consumer borrowing for autos, home improvement, and debt consolidation. And
several small commercial bankers around the District stated that they were picking up loans from
customers who were dissatisfied with the service they were getting from large banks. Most bank contacts
stated that interest rates were little changed, and the quality of loans continued to improve modestly. Real Estate. Residential real estate activity softened since our last report, although a few
pockets of strength remained. Several Realtors reported that sales fell considerably and housing prices
had declined from a month ago. Many agents attributed the drop in sales prices to short/distressed sales
being used as comparables. Most Realtors cited sales in the low-price range as faring better than sales in
the high-price range. An exception, however, was an agent in the D.C. area who said that sales in the
$1,500,000 plus range were up 31 percent. Brokers in Richmond and Charlotte noted that the rental
market was heating up. A builder in Charleston, South Carolina described residential construction as very
 

 V-3
weak, with a rise in the average number of days on the market for new homes, even as the number of
homes for sale declined. In central Virginia, a real estate agent indicated most shoppers were serious
about buying, although foot traffic had slowed down quite a bit in recent months. He added that, while
closed sales were down, pending sales were up from a year ago. We received mixed signals from commercial real estate and construction markets in the District.
A contractor in the Baltimore area reported that commercial permits over the last month were up on a
year-over-year basis for the first time this year. Several contractors in Virginia and Maryland experienced
a small pickup in demand and were hoping to increase their prices. And, while some architecture firms in
the D.C. area had more signs of stress, one firm reported its best backlog of orders since the recession. In
contrast, another D.C. contractor said that projects in the area were few, and each had many bids that were
too low for most contractors and their subcontractors to make a profit. A contact in West Virginia noted a
dramatic slowdown in local leasing activity. In addition, a developer in South Carolina stated that office
and retail space was abundant and no new building was needed except for very specialized structures,
such as medical facilities. A commercial Realtor in South Carolina also noted that, although office
vacancy rates were high, a significant portion of those buildings were obsolete. Labor Markets. Assessments of labor market activity changed little since our last report. A
representative at a Charlotte staffing and recruiting company for accounting and finance reported an
increase in corporate hiring. A staffing services contact from Charleston, South Carolina indicated that
2011 has been an exceptionally strong year for temporary placements, but noted the pool of sufficiently
qualified candidates was relatively small and many applicants were disqualified by drug tests. Several
contacts cited examples of workers who had declined employment opportunities in favor of
unemployment benefits. Looking ahead, employment agencies expected stronger demand for temporary
workers during the next six months, along with improving economic activity. A Maryland contact said
that he expected employers to utilize temp help to a greater extent than last year, because of economic
uncertainty. A commercial architect in Charlotte also reported a trend toward the use of contract labor
instead of hiring full time employees. A source from a management consulting group in Maryland stated
that businesses believe that regulation and tax increases are impeding full-time hiring. According to our
latest survey, hiring at non-retail service firms picked up briskly in December and average wages
strengthened. In contrast, retailers cut jobs and average retail wages flattened. Manufacturing
employment edged lower over the last month, while the average workweek held steady; wages increased
on pace with a month ago. Tourism. A majority of hotel and resort contacts indicated bookings have been solid since our
last report. The manager of a western Virginia hotel and resort described a very busy Thanksgiving
weekend. He remarked that they were booked full through the Christmas weekend, even though the
unseasonably warm weather limited the number of open ski slopes. A contact on the North Carolina Outer
 

 V-4
Banks cited good autumn and early winter tourist activity, and added that bookings were equal to or better
than a year ago. Owners of vacation rental property there expected a surge in reservations by early
January, when people typically act on decisions made during the winter holidays. A hotel manager in
central Virginia also reported increased bookings, and a contact at a North Carolina amusement and
recreation venue noted a pick-up in revenues. In contrast, a hotelier in the Piedmont region of South
Carolina indicated bookings have been flat. In addition, hotel contacts on the Virginia coast reported that
bookings have not increased as expected, owing to the difficult economy and cuts in federal government
spending on travel. One hotel representative noted that government employees are now sharing rooms
rather than booking individually. Rates were generally unchanged.
 

 VI-1 SIXTH DISTRICT – ATLANTA Summary. Sixth District business contacts described economic activity as expanding at a modest pace
from late November through December. Reports from most sectors were positive, yet expectations remained
guarded. Holiday sales were described by most retailers as generally positive and the pace of sales was stronger
than last year by most accounts. Auto sales remained strong as well. Tourism-related spending was solid as
international visitors continued to bolster activity. Weakness persisted in the residential real estate sector as both
brokers and homebuilders continued to report downward pressure on prices for new and existing homes.
Commercial contractors noted a slight improvement in demand compared with earlier in the year. Most
manufacturers and transportation contacts noted positive activity, especially related to exports. Bankers noted
that deposit growth continued to outpace loan demand. Employment growth was positive but tepid across the
District as employers remained cautious with regard to hiring. Concerns over increased input costs eased
further as most commodity prices leveled off and business’ inflation expectations remained in check. Few
contacts reported having significant pricing power. Consumer Spending and Tourism. District retail contacts noted that sales and traffic in late
November and December were up from a year ago. Post-Thanksgiving reports were generally positive; nearly
sixty percent of contacts polled indicated that sales were better than the same time period last year. Almost half
of contacts reported that inventory levels were up slightly compared to last month, but most were satisfied that
current levels were appropriate. High-end and outlet stores were specifically identified as doing well and were
posting improved profits. Most merchants polled expect overall sales to improve over the next three months.
Auto dealers indicated that sales continued to be strong because of pent-up demand and are better positioned to
obtain financing; the pace of sales during early November and December was reportedly the strongest in over
two years. Hospitality contacts reported that holiday activity slightly exceeded cautiously optimistic projections.
Occupancy and room rates were up throughout the District. South Florida in particular experienced greater
travel activity from Canada and South America. Airport traffic remained above year-ago levels in most major
District cities with international travelers helping boost overall arrivals in many Florida destinations. Cruise line
reservations remained solid into the first quarter of 2012 as international passengers took advantage of deals.
Business travel improved over year-ago levels, although reservations were being made closer to departure dates. Real Estate and Construction. Residential brokers indicated that sales continued to soften in late
November and December but remained ahead of last year’s weak levels. However, sales growth varied
somewhat across the region. Florida brokers reported that sales growth, measured year-over-year, rebounded in
November after moderating slightly in the previous two months. These sales continued to be driven by
international and cash sales. Elsewhere in the District, most brokers reported that sales were similar to weak
 

 VI-2
levels seen a year ago. Many contacts noted that appraisals remained problematic. Inventories declined on a
year-over-year basis. Brokers continued to report downward pressure on home prices across most of the
District. Many anticipate modest sales growth over the next several months with the most positive expectations
coming from Florida brokers. Reports from District homebuilders indicated that new home sales and construction activity growth,
measured year-over-year, were flat to slightly up. Builders also continued to report downward pressure on
home prices with most reporting that prices were flat or down on a year-over-year basis, in spite of inventories
that remained below year-earlier levels. Builders indicated a strong pickup in buyer traffic compared with the
same time period as last year. Homebuilders anticipate new home sales and construction to improve modestly
in the coming year. The majority of District commercial real estate contacts continued to report improving demand from
earlier in the year. Brokers indicated modest improvements in demand for space with some noting that rent
concessions had abated. Contractors continued to report improvements in construction activity from earlier in
the year. However, financing remained challenging and most projects were build-to-suit. The outlook among
contacts improved modestly from early November with most contractors and commercial real estate brokers
anticipating that construction activity will improve slowly during 2012. Manufacturing and Transportation. On balance, District manufacturing contacts showed notable
improvements in both levels of new orders and production in November after reporting several months of
decelerating activity. In addition, more contacts reported improving expectations for future production than in
previous reports. Export manufacturers and auto producers, in particular, reported strong activity. Auto
producers noted that recent flooding in Thailand would likely have a modest, negative impact on production of
some models as several plants in that region were damaged or forced to curtail operations for several weeks. Reports from transportation industry contacts remained positive in late November and December. Port
authorities cited volume increases over last year with notable strength in exports. Trucking firms continued to
report increased demand for their services but were struggling to meet customer needs because of a significant
shortage of long-haul drivers. Banking and Finance. Liquidity levels at depository institutions remained high as many banks
reported strong deposit growth coupled with continued weak loan demand. Some banking contacts noted that
they cut loan prices to attract new customers and offered loan concessions proactively to retain existing clients.
There was also little demand for new housing loans, although bankers reported mortgage refinancing and
automobile loan activity increased. In terms of commercial lending, loan growth among community banks and
credit unions was primarily limited to owner-occupied enterprises, while some larger banks reported growth in
areas such as energy and healthcare.
 

 VI-3 Availability of credit/capital was not an issue for most large firms because of positive cash flow,
adequate cash reserves, or a strong, long-standing relationship with their bank. Small business contacts,
however, continued to report difficulty in obtaining credit from banks and some have turned to non-bank
institutions for financing. Employment and Prices. Contacts across most sectors continued to report modest hiring activity across
much of the District. Most of the hiring has been temporary in nature and tied to seasonal employment.
However, there were some scattered reports among healthcare and hospitality contacts in South Florida that
hiring was occurring as a result of increased demand or expansion. Agriculture contacts reported labor shortages
across Alabama, citing newly enacted immigration legislation as the culprit. Firms also noted reluctance
towards adding new full-time employees because of uncertainty surrounding healthcare reform, a large pool of
both over and under qualified applicants, and because productivity enhancements have made several positions
redundant. Contacts were generally not as concerned with input costs as they had been in previous months, noting
that commodity prices had leveled off or eased somewhat. Notable exceptions included reports of restaurants
facing elevated food costs and ongoing price pressures from high transportation and shipping costs. Many
businesses reported slightly improved margins in late November and December. However, with the exception of
high-end apparel retailers and hospitality contacts, firms reported having little pricing power. In the Atlanta Fed’s monthly business inflation survey of firms in the Sixth Federal Reserve District,
respondents indicated in December that their inflation expectations for the coming year are 1.9 percent, down
slightly from November. Looking forward, businesses indicated that costs for materials and labor may influence
them to raise prices. Respondents did not expect changes in productivity, sales, or margin adjustments to have a
significant influence on prices over the coming year. Natural Resources and Agriculture. Energy industry contacts indicated that they continued to add to
their workforces and that plans to invest in increased production capacity were proceeding. Permitting for
shallow water rigs in the Gulf of Mexico picked up slightly. The first lease auction for deepwater exploration
since last year’s Gulf oil spill occurred in December with 191 tracks being sold for $337.7 million. While much of the District witnessed various degrees of drought ranging from "abnormally dry" to
"exceptional" in late November and December, both Georgia and Louisiana experienced the most severe
conditions. Demand for cotton was flat as a result of global economic concerns and competition from synthetic
fibers. Prices for cattle and hogs continued to increase because of strong foreign demand. Several regional
agritourism contacts noted plans to expand next year.
 

 VII-1 SEVENTH DISTRICT—CHICAGO Summary. The rate of growth of economic activity in the Seventh District picked up in late
November and December. Contacts were generally optimistic about the economic outlook for 2012,
but many also expressed concern about potential weakness in demand from abroad, particularly
from China and Europe. Consumer spending increased, while business spending was steady.
Manufacturing production increased. Construction was again subdued, although conditions in real
estate markets improved slightly. Overall, credit conditions were little changed from the last
reporting period. Wholesale price increases slowed, but there was some further pass-through to the
retail level. Corn, soybean, and cattle prices increased, while milk and hog prices decreased. Consumer spending. Consumer spending continued to increase in late November and
December. Compared to last year’s holiday season, store traffic volumes were up significantly
while nominal spending was up only moderately as consumers reportedly were making more
shopping trips and aggressively bargain hunting to obtain the lowest prices. Several contacts noted
an increase this year in online shopping and a greater prevalence of flexible and low-cost shipping
options. Traditional holiday retail items such as electronics, sporting goods, hobby items, music,
books, toys, and apparel all sold well. Contacts additionally reported more spending on luxury items
this year. Auto sales increased since the last reporting period. Dealers reported that showroom
traffic volumes were up, and many expected sales to continue to improve further in 2012.
Importantly, contacts cited a continued boost from replacement demand in light of the record high
average age of vehicles in the U.S. Business spending. Business spending was steady in late November and December.
Contacts reported that inventory levels were generally in-line with sales, although inventory
rebuilding continued in the auto industry in the aftermath of the supply chain disruptions earlier in
the year. Capital investment plans were largely unchanged, with several manufacturers moving
ahead with planned increases in capacity. Hiring remained selective, but the majority of contacts
indicated plans to increase employment next year. A staffing firm noted slower growth in billable
hours and below-average seasonal hiring in office and clerical positions. However, they also
indicated that permanent placement activity continued to increase for industrial positions.
Manufacturers again cited difficulties in attracting job candidates with ideal skill sets in technical
fields such as engineering. Many of these firms indicated that they would rather postpone hiring a
candidate until economic conditions improve to a point that would clearly warrant them doing so.
 

 VII-2 Construction/real estate. Construction activity was subdued in late November and early
December, but there was some improvement in overall real estate conditions. Builder showroom
traffic picked up slightly, although in general residential real estate market conditions remained
depressed as foreclosed properties continued to put downward pressure on prices and single-family
construction remained at low levels. In contrast, multi-family construction continued to be an area
of strength. The number of residential leases being signed increased from the previous reporting
period and rents rose. Nonresidential construction was also up moderately with the strongest gains
in Class A properties. Contacts noted greater demand for both industrial and healthcare facilities. In
addition, commercial real estate conditions improved slightly with commercial rents stabilizing and
a decline in the available amount of sublease space. Manufacturing. Manufacturing production increased in late November and December.
Contacts in the manufacturing sector were more optimistic for 2012 given the pace at which their
order books are filling through the first quarter. Auto production increased over the reporting
period. However, some contacts still are concerned about the ability to ramp up production much
further over the near-term because auto suppliers may be approaching capacity constraints. Demand
for heavy equipment remained strong, led by robust activity in the energy and agriculture sectors.
Exports also continued to be a source of strength, although slower growth in China and Europe was
noted to have held back sales at some firms. In the steel sector, inventories at service centers remain
near desired levels, and given the continued strength in the auto, energy, machinery, and mining
sectors, steel production was expected to increase in the first quarter of 2012. Banking/finance. Credit conditions were little changed during the reporting period.
Corporate funding costs, while variable, were largely unchanged on balance. Liquidity remained
relatively scarce in the high yield debt markets. Banking contacts indicated that business loan
demand continued to be subdued, with the exception of some large multinational mining
corporations. Businesses utilization of credit lines was only up a bit. Because lenders continue to
see their clients’ balance sheets growing stronger, they speculated that uncertainty about future
business conditions was restraining the demand for credit. However, contacts also noted that some
larger manufacturers are making loans to sub-tier suppliers out of retained earnings, thus reducing
these suppliers’ typical demand for credit from financial institutions. Prices/costs. Cost pressures eased in late November and early December. While pressure
on costs remained from commodities such as steel and food, it moderated significantly for cotton
and energy goods. Pass through of elevated material costs to consumers continued. Wage pressures
 

 VII-3
remained moderate, with contacts noting that annual increases in wage and non-wage benefits were
largely in-line with last year’s increases. Agriculture. Farm income for 2011 was higher than in 2010; and farmland values and cash
rental rates were reported to be higher once again. After falling initially during the reporting period,
corn and soybean prices rose in the last half of December. More generally, crop prices fell during
the harvest period. However, most crop deliveries involved sales at pre-harvest prices, as many end
users found it necessary to ensure sufficient supplies prior to the harvest. In contrast, for those who
didn’t pre-sell, more of their crop ended up being put into storage. Milk and hog prices fell during
the reporting period, while cattle prices increased. Still, export demand helped keep prices for both
dairy and meat products higher than they were at the end of 2010. Input costs have risen for the
coming planting season.
 

 VIII-1 Eighth District — St. Louis
Summary The economy of the Eighth District grew at a modest pace since our previous survey.
Manufacturing activity has increased since the previous report and activity in the services sector
has also increased. Residential real estate activity, in contrast, has continued to decline.
Commercial and industrial real estate activity has been sluggish, although contacts noted
improvement in some areas. Overall lending at a sample of small and mid-sized District banks
declined slightly in the three-month period from mid-September to mid-December.
Manufacturing and Other Business Activity Manufacturing activity has increased since our previous report. Several manufacturers
reported plans to open plants and expand operations in the near future, while a smaller number of
contacts reported plans to close plants or decrease operations. Firms in the industrial gas,
metallic component, automotive parts, primary metal, and clothing manufacturing industries
announced plans to increase operations and hire new workers. In contrast, firms in the speaker
component, medical equipment, furniture, and dye manufacturing industries announced plans to
decrease operations and lay off workers. Activity in the District’s services sector has increased since our previous report. Firms in
distribution services, consulting services, and health services announced plans to expand
operations and hire new workers. Several general retail contacts in the District reported stronger
holiday sales compared with last year. District auto dealers reported strong sales of luxury
automobiles and pickup trucks.
 

 VIII-2
Real Estate and Construction Home sales continued to decline throughout most of the Eighth District. Compared with
the same period in 2010, November 2011 year-to-date home sales were down 3 percent in
Memphis, 4 percent in St. Louis, 5 percent in Louisville, and 7 percent in Little Rock.
Residential construction also continued to decrease throughout the District. November 2011
year-to-date single-family housing permits decreased in the majority of the District’s
metropolitan areas compared with the same period in 2010. Permits decreased 1 percent in
Memphis, 17 percent in Louisville, and 21 percent in Little Rock and St. Louis. Commercial and industrial real estate activity was slow throughout most of the Eighth
District. Contacts in central Kentucky reported that commercial real estate activity continues to
be sluggish, while contacts in central Arkansas reported soft demand for commercial real estate
loans. Contacts in Louisville noted that the health care industry is providing most of the current
demand for office spaces. Commercial and industrial construction activity remained unchanged
throughout most of the District. Contacts in south-central Kentucky reported that construction
activity is modest but noted new commercial construction projects in the Scottsville and Bowling
Green areas. Contacts in St. Louis reported continued limited construction, while contacts in
Louisville noted that speculative development has still not recovered. Contacts in western
Kentucky reported that construction firms are experiencing little activity with the exception of
government-related projects.
Banking and Finance Total loans outstanding at a sample of small and mid-sized District banks decreased 0.2
percent in the three-month period from mid-September to mid-December. Real estate lending,
 

 VIII-3
which accounts for 73.4 percent of total loans, decreased 0.5 percent. Commercial and industrial
loans, accounting for 15.5 percent of total loans, decreased 0.2 percent. Loans to individuals,
accounting for 4.7 percent of loans, increased 2.0 percent. All other loans, accounting for 6.4
percent of total loans, increased 8.0 percent. Over this period, total deposits increased 0.3
percent.
Agriculture and Natural Resources As of the beginning of December, the number of bales of cotton ginned (separated from
the seed) in the District states was up by 11.9 percent over the same period in 2010. Monthly
output of commercial red meat for October 2011 increased compared with September 2011 and
October 2010. However, the District’s total live weight and number of young chickens
slaughtered decreased between September and October 2011. The District’s monthly coal
production for November 2011 was 2.7 percent lower compared with November 2010; however,
the District’s year-to-date coal production at the end of November 2011 was 2.8 percent higher
than the same period in 2010.
 

 IX-1 NINTH DISTRICT--MINNEAPOLIS
The Ninth District economy grew at a modest pace since the last report. Solid growth was
reported in some areas of consumer spending and in the energy and mining sectors. Slight
to moderate growth was noted in commercial and residential real estate, professional
services, manufacturing, and agriculture. Activity in the construction sector was down from
a year ago, while the unexpected lack of snowfall dampened tourism. Labor markets
showed continued signs of modest strengthening, while wage increases remained subdued.
Prices generally remained level.
Consumer Spending and Tourism
Consumer spending increased during the holiday season. Holiday sales at a Minneapolis
area mall were up more than 10 percent compared with a year ago. Sales at a North
Dakota mall during late November and December were up about 8 percent over last year.
A mall manager in Montana noted heavy traffic at the mall during the week before
Christmas and the day after Christmas. Same-store sales at a Minnesota-based retailer
increased about 2 percent in November compared with a year ago; Black Friday sales
were particularly strong. A Minnesota-based sporting goods store reported that Internet
sales on Cyber Monday (Nov. 28) increased 50 percent over last year. Warm weather set
back some sales of winter apparel, but clear roads allowed shoppers to get to stores. A
domestic auto dealer reported strong sales in December. Tourism activity was down. A lack of snow and surprisingly warm weather
stymied snowmobiling, ice fishing, and skiing in many areas. Tourism officials in
Minnesota noted that the lack of snow was affecting businesses that cater to winter
recreation. Low snowfall in Yellowstone National Park was affecting nearby businesses
that offer winter tours of the park on snowmobiles and in snowcoaches. However, a ski
resort in Minnesota reported strong preseason sales; the number of visits through the end
of December was at expected levels. In western South Dakota, a snowmobiling-related
business and a ski resort both have received calls from a number of people who are ready
to visit once more snow falls.
Construction and Real Estate
Commercial construction activity decreased modestly over the past year. The value of
commercial building permits in the Sioux Falls, S.D., area was down slightly in
November from November 2010. Respondents to the University of St. Thomas’s
 

 IX-2
semiannual Minnesota Commercial Real Estate Survey (November) expected higher land
and building costs, which should dampen construction. However, several commercial
construction projects are under way or planned in Montana. Residential construction
decreased from last year. The number of permitted residential units in the Minneapolis-
St. Paul, Sioux Falls, and Billings, Mont., areas was down in November from a year ago,
but increased in Fargo, N.D. Commercial real estate market activity increased. According to the
aforementioned University of St. Thomas survey, respondents expected growth in rents
and occupancy but flat rates of return on investment. Industrial real estate activity
increased since the last report, according to a large Minnesota commercial broker. Home
sales in December were up from the same period a year ago in the Minneapolis-St. Paul
area, and the inventory of homes for sale was at six-year lows; however, prices continued
to decline. In the Sioux Falls area, November new listings were down, sales activity was
flat, and prices decreased from a year ago.
Services
Activity at professional business services firms increased since the last report. An
information technology consulting firm noted a solid backlog of business for 2012. An
architectural firm noted more potential projects up for bid, but said many projects never
become reality. An accounting firm reported flat activity over the past month.
Manufacturing
The District manufacturing sector expanded slightly since the last report. A November
survey of purchasing managers by Creighton University (Omaha, Neb.) found that
manufacturing activity increased in Minnesota and North Dakota, and was flat in South
Dakota. A number of factory expansions were reported in eastern South Dakota,
including at a plastics producer and a packaging firm. In southern Minnesota, a firm that
produces pressurized storage tanks for the natural gas industry is expanding into a
currently empty building, and a large plant that makes electronically shaded glass began
operations after several years of development.
Energy and Mining
Activity in the energy and mining sectors continued to increase. A new wind energy
project was announced in western Wisconsin. While District oil and gas exploration
activity decreased slightly since the last report, it remained well above year-earlier levels.
 

 IX-3
An oil transport facility expansion is planned in North Dakota that will add a rail car
loading area and increase holding capacity by 80,000 barrels per day. Mining activity
remained strong. A new venture on Minnesota’s Iron Range to extract material for steel
production from old mining dumps recently began operations at one site and made its
first shipments; two more sites are planned.
Agriculture
Growth in the agricultural sector moderated, as some commodity prices declined. Prices
received by farmers for wheat, corn, hogs, and dairy products decreased in December
from the previous month. Cattle, poultry, egg, dry bean, and hay prices increased in
December from the previous month. Meanwhile, a partnership announced the
development of a large grain-loading facility in Minnesota.
Employment, Wages, and Prices
Labor markets showed continued signs of modest strengthening. A pharmacy benefits
management company recently announced plans to add 300 jobs in Minnesota. A bank is
hiring almost 80 more workers at a call center in South Dakota. Bank directors noted that
in the Dakotas and some parts of Montana, employers would hire if they could find
workers; some of these employers have started to offer relocation packages as an
incentive. According to a recent survey by an employment services firm, 15 percent of
respondents in Minneapolis-St. Paul expect to increase staffing levels during first quarter
2012, while 8 percent expect to decrease staff. A year ago, 10 percent expected to
increase hiring, while 6 percent expected decreases. Minnesota initial claims for
unemployment benefits decreased 18 percent in November compared with a year earlier. Wage increases were subdued. Several contacts noted small wage increases at
their firms. A Minnesota manufacturer of residential windows reported that its employees
will go without an annual bonus for the third straight year, but the company also hasn’t
laid anyone off during those three years. Prices generally remained level. End-of-December Minnesota gasoline prices
were flat since the last report, and only 18 cents per gallon more than a year ago. Overall
metals prices were level since the last report and lower than a year ago. A Minnesota-
based electronics retailer heavily discounted products at its stores during the early part of
the holiday shopping season. However, a bank director noted that a number of District
manufacturers were planning to raise prices in 2012.
 

  X-1 TENTH DISTRICT - KANSAS CITY The Tenth District economy expanded at a modest pace in late November and December.
Consumer spending softened, with weakness in auto, restaurant, and tourism sales. District
manufacturing activity contracted slightly, though factory operators remained optimistic about
growth in the coming months. High-tech firms reported continued strong growth, while
transportation activity was flat. Residential and commercial real estate conditions remained
broadly weak, but contacts expressed increased optimism about sales and prices in the coming
months. District banks reported generally steady loan demand and improved loan quality. High
crude oil prices buoyed activity in the District’s energy sector. Agricultural growing conditions
improved, but higher input and production costs constrained farm profits. Rising input costs were
reported in several sectors, but few District contacts noted either hiring shortages or wage
pressures. Consumer Spending. Consumer spending softened in late November and December,
with a slowdown in the auto, restaurant, and tourism sectors. Many District contacts attributed
the weakness in spending to ongoing regulatory and political uncertainty. Most retailers,
however, expected spending to rise over the next three months. Following several months of
strong activity, auto dealers reported a dip in sales with slower sales expected in coming months.
Auto inventories increased over the previous survey period, and most dealers reported
satisfaction with current levels. Restaurant sales were flat despite larger average check amounts.
However, restaurant contacts expected sales to rebound over the next three months. Tourism
activity slowed, as winter storms hampered some tourist activity but helped ski resorts. Hoteliers
reported lower occupancy rates but stable average room rates. Manufacturing and Other Business Activity. Manufacturing activity contracted
slightly during the survey period, but factory operators remained optimistic about the coming
months. Activity was broadly weaker, with production, shipments, and new orders lower relative
to the prior survey. The weakest sectors were food processing and fabricated metals, while
growth in machinery and high-tech manufacturing remained strong. Order backlogs,
manufacturing employment, and average hours worked declined. Despite weaker activity,
expectations were positive for the coming months for production, shipments, and orders.
Transportation firms reported mostly unchanged conditions as activity remained well above
 

  X-2
year-ago levels. Most high-tech services firms reported sales gains and increased capital
spending. Contacts in both the transportation and high-tech sectors reported continued difficulty
finding skilled workers. Real Estate and Construction. Residential and commercial real estate activity remained
sluggish in late November and December. District home prices were flat, but most real estate
contacts expected prices to rise along with home sales over the next three months. Multiple
contacts reported multi-family housing as a source of strength in the housing market. Mortgage
lenders reported weak mortgage demand with fewer home purchases and refinancings relative to
the previous survey period. Lenders cited stricter mortgage lending requirements as a key factor
underlying weak loan demand. Housing starts declined further, and expectations about future
construction activity remained subdued. Construction supply firms reported weak sales over the
survey period, and most expected little change in activity over the coming months. Commercial
real estate sales, prices, and vacancy rates improved, and District contacts were more optimistic
about the coming months. Rents on commercial properties were stable and expected to rise over
the next three months. Developers reported little change in access to credit. Banking. Almost all bankers reported generally steady loan demand, stable or improving
loan quality, and increased deposits. Loan demand by category was mixed. Most respondents
reported steady loan demand for commercial and industrial loans, commercial and residential
real estate loans, and consumer installment loans. Remaining respondents were split between
stronger and weaker demand within each of these categories. Credit standards remained largely
unchanged in all major loan categories and deposits increased for the eighth straight survey.
Bankers generally reported loan quality as steady or improving compared to a year ago and
reported the outlook for loan quality over the next six months as steady or improving. Agriculture. Agricultural growing conditions improved in late November and December
but farm income prospects dimmed with high input costs. Timely rains eased drought conditions
in the Southern Plains. Most of the winter wheat crop emerged in good condition, though more
protective snow cover was needed for the winter dormancy period. Volatile crop prices and high
input costs tempered crop profit expectations for the coming year. High production costs
trimmed margins for livestock operators even though strong export demand underpinned prices.
Still, with historically high profits, many farmers were repaying operating loans, buying
farmland and purchasing additional machinery and equipment. District contacts reported an
 

  X-3
increase in the number of farmland auctions as record high land prices enticed more landowners
to sell. Energy. District energy and mining contacts reported continued strong activity in late
November and December and remained optimistic about the coming months. Drilling rig counts
were flat in most District states but remained well above year-ago levels. Drilling continued to
shift away from dry natural gas and toward liquid-rich formations. However, crude exploration
in the Niobrara formation in Wyoming slowed as contacts reported better opportunities in other
areas. Producers expected stable crude prices but relatively weak natural gas prices over the next
three months. Attracting qualified workers and finding adequate equipment remained a concern
for oil and gas contacts. District coal production declined slightly in November and December
and remained below year-ago levels. A recent drop in ethanol prices trimmed margins for
ethanol producers despite lower input costs and strong export demand. Wages and Prices. District contacts reported higher prices for both inputs and finished
goods, but wage pressures remained confined to select industries and occupations. Manufacturers
reported an uptick in input prices in late November and December, but relatively few reported
higher finished goods prices. Manufacturers expected further price increases for both inputs and
finished goods in the coming months. Most restaurants reported a continued rise in food costs
and expected further increases over the next three months. Retailers and transportation firms
increased prices in the latest survey period, while construction suppliers reported falling prices
due to weak building demand. Few contacts outside of the energy, high-tech, and transportation
sectors reported either hiring shortages or upward wage pressures, and most expected little wage
pressure in the coming months. Rising employee benefit costs, particularly for health care,
remained a concern for many contacts.
 

 XI-1 ELEVENTH DISTRICT—DALLAS The Eleventh District economy grew at a moderate pace since the last report. Manufacturing
activity was mixed. Contacts said retail sales were robust and automobile sales held steady. Demand for
business services was solid, and activity in transportation services rose modestly. Housing and
commercial real estate markets continued to improve slightly. Construction activity remained subdued,
with apartment construction being the major exception. Financial services respondents said overall loan
demand was flat to up slightly. Energy activity slowed somewhat, but respondents expect strong growth
in activity in 2012. Agricultural conditions remained weak. Employment levels were mostly unchanged.
Price and wage pressures were subdued. Prices Contacts across industries said prices held steady or declined. The exceptions were
producers of paper, fabricated metals and food who noted increased prices for some inputs. Crop
commodity prices were generally lower than six weeks ago, while cattle prices held fairly steady. The price of WTI moved in a narrow range between $95 and $100 per barrel during the reporting
period. Natural gas prices remained low, near $3.50 per thousand cubic feet, due to unseasonably warm
weather and large inventories. Diesel and gasoline prices declined by 20 cents per gallon over the past six
weeks, and prices of petrochemicals and plastics held steady or fell slightly. Labor Market Employment levels were flat to up slightly at most responding firms. Staffing
firms continued to note high levels of demand. Energy industry respondents said labor shortages for
skilled workers, such as engineers, geologists, and machinists, remained a barrier to expansion. Some
producers of food, fabricated metals and transportation equipment noted moderate employment increases,
and auto dealers said they continue to look for additional workers. Wage pressures remained minimal,
although staffing firms noted modest increases in billing rates for skilled workers. Several firms noted
plans to give employees cost-of-living adjustments next year. Manufacturing Construction-related manufacturers’ responses were mixed. Stone, clay and
glass producers said demand was below expectations, while lumber producers noted no change in activity.
Fabricated metals producers said demand had increased since the last report, and some reported a pickup
in private nonresidential projects, especially from foreign investors. Primary metals demand was mostly
stable and was characterized as “decent but not great.” Construction-related firms’ outlooks are cautiously
optimistic for 2012. Respondents in high-tech manufacturing reported that sales grew at a weak to moderate pace
since the last report. Sales and prices for DRAM continued to be very weak, while demand and prices for
processors were holding up much better. Respondents said that increased demand for mobile devices and
 

 XI-2
data storage should drive up demand for semiconductors by the second quarter of 2012. Respondents
noted, however, that economic uncertainty remains very high. Conditions in the paper industry were mixed. Most contacts noted weakness, although one
reported an unusually busy December with strong orders from the auto and construction industries.
Respondents expect conditions to remain about the same in 2012 as in 2011. Automobile and aviation
equipment manufacturers said demand had picked up slightly since the last report. Expectations are for
stronger sales of automobile equipment in 2012, but aviation manufacturers expect only modest growth.
Food producers noted a pickup in demand since the last report, in part due to stronger consumer demand,
and partly due to increased market share. Outlooks among food industry contacts remain positive. Petrochemical producers noted a seasonal slowdown in demand for most products. Producers of
plastics and plastic feedstocks said prices and inventories stabilized after sharp declines in October and
November. Demand for chlorine showed weakness beyond the normal seasonal slowing, and some
contacts attributed the weakness to slower global growth. Contacts in the refining industry noted weak
domestic consumption of refined products, especially gasoline, although export markets were still strong.
Inventories were said to be near expectations for this time of year. While both gasoline and diesel prices
slipped over the past six weeks, refiners’ margins remained at healthy levels, according to contacts. Retail Sales Retailers said sales activity was robust during the reporting period, and retail sales
growth saw moderate gains over the comparable year-ago period. However, contacts noted consumers
remain cautious and value-driven. The Eleventh District and Midwest in general exhibited stronger sales
growth than other parts of the nation, according to the responding firms. Inventories have increased over
the prior year, but are at desired levels. Jewelry, small electronics and apparel were areas of strength in
retail this holiday season. Automobile sales held steady from the prior report and have increased year-over-year. The used
car market remains tight. Contacts expect 2012 will be another good year, with moderate increases in
sales. Vehicle inventories are back to normal levels for the most part, although some contacts reported
light inventories due to increased activity. Services Staffing firms continued to report high levels of demand. However, some contacts
noted a slight slowdown in activity as some clients delayed hiring until the start of 2012. Direct hires
continued to drive business, with particularly strong demand for professional and technical workers. One
contact noted a shortage of skilled IT professionals. Outlooks were more optimistic than in the last report,
with contacts expecting demand to remain robust or improve next year. Demand for accounting services
remained flat, and overall growth this year has been slightly weaker than expected. Legal firms reported
steady activity, with continued strength in demand for intellectual property, energy, litigation and some
real-estate services and a slight pickup in corporate activity.
 

 XI-3 Reports from transportation service firms were positive. Intermodal firms reported steady cargo volumes during the reporting period, and outlooks are positive for the first half of 2012. Railroad firms noted a broad-based increase in shipments, with particularly strong growth in petroleum products, motor vehicles and equipment, nonmetallic minerals, crushed stone, metals and metallic ores. Small parcel shipments rose strongly during the reporting period. Airlines reported steady passenger demand over the past six weeks. Domestic demand and travel to Latin America remained solid, and travel to Europe and Asia improved slightly. Airline contacts expect demand to remain stable in the short term. Construction and Real Estate Housing industry contacts continue to report improving conditions overall, although sales activity remains at low levels. Home sales rose at a modest pace over the reporting period and new and existing home inventories continued to decline. Contacts are hopeful that the housing industry is poised for a recovery in 2012. Apartment demand remained steady since the last report and contacts characterize Texas markets as tight. Apartment construction continues to increase, and contacts noted that multi-family properties are the favored property type among real estate investors. Conditions in nonresidential property markets continue to firm, according to most contacts. Demand for office space continued to rise modestly since the last report, and there were some reports of improvement in demand for warehouse and retail space. Nonresidential construction activity remains at low levels, and some contacts noted concern about 2012 as public projects come to a close. One contact noted that while conditions have improved overall, real estate financing remains a challenge due to weak consumer sentiment and higher investment risk. Financial Services Financial firms reported flat to modest increases in loan demand. National
banks noted a pickup in both middle- and large-market corporate lending activity. Regional banks said loan
demand was mixed, with strength in energy-related lending and weakness in other loan activity. Loan pricing
remained competitive. The quality of loans outstanding continued to improve, with contacts noting a decline
in problem loans. Outlooks are uncertain given mostly sluggish loan demand. Energy Oil field activity slowed seasonally at year end, with the District rig count edging down. However, respondents expect a high level of activity to resume early in 2012 and increase throughout the year. Respondents cited strong orders, growing backlogs, and good pricing for their products as evidence of future growth. Agriculture The District remained largely in drought, although recent rainfalls have lessened the drought’s severity in most parts and benefitted the winter wheat crop. There is still very little grazing available, resulting in costly supplemental feeding of livestock. Demand for agricultural products receded slightly over the reporting period, although beef exports remained strong.  

 XII - 1 TWELFTH DISTRICT–SAN FRANCISCO
Summary Economic activity in the Twelfth District continued to grow at a moderate pace during the
reporting period of late November through the end of December. Upward price pressures remained very
modest overall, and upward wage pressures were quite limited. Holiday retail sales reportedly were up
over last year’s season, and demand edged up for business and consumer services. District manufacturing
activity grew further on net. Production activity and sales remained robust for agricultural producers and
rose a bit further for providers of energy resources. Activity in District housing markets stayed at very
low levels, and demand for nonresidential real estate generally was weak. Reports from financial
institutions indicated a slight increase in business loan demand.
Wages and Prices Price inflation remained quite limited for most final goods and services during the reporting
period. Contacts noted recent price increases for selected commodities such as oil and for assorted food
items at the retail level, in particular for meat. However, intense supplier competition for existing
customers kept a lid on final sales prices for the majority of retail goods and services. Contacts in most sectors reported that upward wage pressure were modest, although they
continued to note rising costs for employee health benefits. Elevated unemployment rates and limited
hiring kept compensation gains modest across most regions and sectors, with the exception of significant
wage increases for workers with specialized skills in selected manufacturing and technology sectors.
Looking ahead, most businesses expect little change in the pace of hiring and wage gains next year.
Retail Trade and Services Retail sales were up compared with last year’s holiday season, with gains reported by traditional
department stores as well as discount chains. Inventories generally were at or near desired levels given
the pace of sales, although contacts reported an excess of winter apparel resulting from unusually mild
weather. Demand remained largely unchanged compared with prior reporting periods for retailers of
major appliances, furniture, and electronics. Sales improved somewhat for grocers. Sales of new
 

 XII - 2
automobiles rose further overall during the reporting period, although slightly softer demand was noted
for the last few weeks. Demand for used vehicles remained robust, and dealers reported marked
improvement in the quality of trade-ins compared with earlier in the year. Demand for business and consumer services was mixed but appeared to expand slightly on net.
Demand for transportation services remained largely flat, as did demand for professional services such as
legal services and accounting. Sales were largely stable on a seasonal basis for restaurants and other
food-service providers. For providers of health-care services, demand softened a bit further, as higher
emergency room visits were more than offset by declines in inpatient admissions and surgeries. By
contrast, sales continued to expand for providers of technology services to businesses and consumers,
although the pace of growth continued to slow. District travel activity picked up further, with additional
growth in demand reported for the tourism and business segments of the market alike.
Manufacturing District manufacturing activity expanded further on balance during the reporting period of late
November through the end of December. Makers of commercial aircraft and parts reported further
expansion in production activity, with ongoing growth in new orders attributed in part to rising demand
for fuel-efficient aircraft. Activity remained largely stable for metal fabricators and is expected to remain
so for the foreseeable future. For manufacturers of semiconductors and other technology products,
demand growth continued to slow, and capacity utilization dipped a bit from existing high levels as
companies sought to hold down inventory growth. Capacity utilization rates for petroleum refiners
remained largely stable or rose somewhat as robust global demand for distillate products, such as diesel
and jet fuel, offset weak domestic demand for gasoline. Activity remained exceptionally sluggish for
manufacturers of wood products.
Agriculture and Resource-related Industries Demand was robust for agricultural producers and grew a bit for natural resources used for
energy production. Final sales and orders for most agricultural products, including livestock and a variety
of crops, continued to expand. Elevated price levels for a range of metals supported further expansion of
 

 XII - 3
mining activity in parts of the District. Overall demand for crude oil rose slightly, largely reflecting
robust foreign demand, while mild winter weather has kept demand for natural gas subdued and caused
extraction activity to wane a bit.
Real Estate and Construction Home demand in the District remained at very low levels, and demand for commercial real estate
stayed weak. The sales pace for new and existing homes was somewhat mixed across the District but
sluggish overall. In response to slow sales and continued high numbers of financially distressed
properties, home construction activity remained moribund and prices were mostly flat. Demand for
commercial real estate remained weak overall, keeping vacancy rates for office and industrial space
elevated in most parts of the District. However, in selected geographic areas, such as the San Francisco
Bay Area and Seattle, expansion in the information technology sector continued to spur demand growth
for office and industrial space.
Financial Institutions Reports from District banking contacts indicated that loan demand improved a touch relative to
the prior reporting period. The volume of new commercial and industrial loans inched up, although
contacts noted that businesses remain very cautious in their approach to capital spending. Contacts again
noted stiff competition among lenders to extend credit to well-qualified small and medium-sized
businesses, causing sustained downward pressure on loan rates and fees. Contacts from the venture
capital sector noted a slight pickup in IPO and investment activity, on the heels of a slowdown in the prior
reporting period. On the consumer side, loan demand remained largely unchanged. In general, lending
standards stayed relatively restrictive for many types of business and consumer loans, despite further
modest improvements in overall credit quality.
 

